[[page 1]]
It’s About Time: Incorporating Temporality in Retrieval
Augmented Language Models
Anoushka Gade
anoushka.gade@sjsu.edu
San Jose State University
San Jose, CA, USA
Jorjeta Jetcheva
jorjeta.jetcheva@sjsu.edu
San Jose State University
San Jose, CA, USA
ABSTRACT
The web serves as a global repository of knowledge, used by billions
of people to search for information. Ensuring that users receive
the most relevant and up-to-date information, especially in the
presence of multiple versions of web content from different time
points remains a critical challenge for information retrieval. This
challenge has recently been compounded by the increased use of
question answering tools trained on Wikipedia or web content and
powered by large language models (LLMs) [13] which have been
found to make up information (or hallucinate), and in addition have
been shown to struggle with the temporal dimensions of informa-
tion. Even Retriever Augmented Language Models (RALMs) which
incorporate a document database to reduce LLM hallucination are
unable to handle temporal queries correctly. This leads to instances
where RALMs respond to queries such as "Who won the Wimble-
don Championship?", by retrieving document passages related to
Wimbledon but without the ability to differentiate between them
based on how recent they are.
In this paper, we propose and evaluate, TempRALM, a temporally-
aware Retriever Augmented Language Model (RALM) with few-
shot learning extensions, which takes into account both semanti-
cally and temporally relevant documents relative to a given query,
rather than relying on semantic similarity alone. We show that our
approach results in up to 74% improvement in performance over
the baseline RALM model, without requiring model pre-training,
recalculating or replacing the RALM document index, or adding
other computationally intensive elements.
KEYWORDS
Information Retrieval, Natural Language Processing, Large Lan-
guage Models
1 INTRODUCTION
The web serves as an ever-expanding reservoir of real-world knowl-
edge, with textual documents constituting a significant fraction of
its content. Moreover, information changes over time, leading to
updates to existing documents, or the addition of new documents.
This leads to multiple versions of information from various time
frames to co-exist and grow over time. A major challenge in in-
formation retrieval is ensuring that users get access to the most
relevant and up-to-date knowledge at any time. This challenge has
recently been compounded by the increased use of question answer-
ing tools powered by large language models (LLMs), which have
gained popularity as a result of the release of chatGPT [13]. LLMs
have been shown to absorb and serve immense quantities of infor-
mation from textual data [14]. This information is typically derived
from a static snapshot of a large number of documents scraped
from the web at a specific point in time. However, real-world infor-
mation changes continuously, frequently on a daily, hourly or even
real-time basis. To address the challenge of frequently changing
data, language models must expand or update their memory on a
regular basis, which involves significant computational, financial
and environmental costs.
In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in using
Retrieval Augmented Language Models (RALMs) as a way of ad-
dressing the problem of frequently evolving information, and also
reducing the tendency of LLMs to make up information known
as hallucinations. RALMs use an external document corpus as a
knowledge source rather than relying solely on parametric memory
like standard LLMs. This corpus, stored in the form of a document
index (a format which makes document retrieval efficient), can be
augmented and updated to reflect current versions of documents
stored in it, for e.g., Wikipedia documents, and web pages. For
a given text-based query, RALM uses its retriever component to
obtain a ranked list of the most relevant documents from the docu-
ment index and gives them to its language model component (also
known as a reader), which uses the ranked documents as context to
generates a response to the query. RALMS have been shown to gen-
erate more specific and factual responses to queries in knowledge
intensive tasks such as question answering and fact checking than
stand-alone LLMs [12]. These models have also shown to perform
well in few-shot training scenarios [8] using as few as 64 examples
to achieve a good performance.
Although RALMs perform well in factual question answering,
they typically use a document index, which contains a single ver-
sion of each document. However, in many real-world applications,
new information continues to be generated, without invalidating
or replacing existing information, which results in multiple ver-
sions of documents to be present in the document index. For ex-
ample, scientific and medical journals continuously publish new
academic papers which are additions and enhancements to the
body of knowledge that has been published previously, for e.g., new
Natural Language Processing (NLP) research papers are posted to
the arxiv platform [1] almost daily. This challenge is further com-
pounded when trying to build a question answering system that
supports time-sensitive queries such as "Which language model
is the state-of-the-art on the latest summarization benchmark?",
because standard RALM models would retrieve numerous papers,
each stating it has established a new state of the art in document
summarization. This is a direct result of the fact that standard
LLMs and the LLM components of RALMs do not take into account
temporal metadata [5].
arXiv:2401.13222v2  [cs.IR]  25 Jan 2024

[[page 2]]
Gade and Jetcheva, et al.
Figure 1: Overview of TempRALM: In this figure, we show the difference between Atlas and TempRALM. In TempRALM, the
retriever fetches documents on semantic relevance with respect to the query as well as temporal relevance relative to the
query-time
In this paper, we show that RALMs face challenges in handling
temporality in even simpler and more structured settings. For ex-
ample, in the context of frequently changing information such as
the identities of the latest winners of the Wimbledon tennis cham-
pionship, we show that Atlas [8], a representative state-of-the-art
RALM, is generally unable to provide an answer that is meaningful
relative to the time at which the question is asked. For example, if
the question "Who won the Wimbledon Men’s championship?" is
asked on December 31, 2019, current state-of-the-art RALM archi-
tectures would retrieve relevant documents by matching the year
2019 in the query timestamp with the Wimbledon match date in
the passages. However, if the same question is asked a day later, i.e.
on January 1, 2020, the current RALM architecture can no longer
retrieve the relevant documents as the year no longer matches, and
since they do not have the ability to understand temporal relation-
ships.
Prior attempts to address this problem have focused on pre-
training the language model by inducing a temporal context as plain
text [5], where the model is trained with a snapshot of timestamp-
prefixed data to enable the model to learn to handle temporal data.
However, the snapshot it is trained on is static, and pre-training of
the models is an expensive operation, which cannot be performed
as frequently as real-world data tends to be updated.
In this paper, we introduce a novel, simple, yet effective method
to retrieve temporally correct documents with respect to a given
query and use it to augment Atlas [8], a standard RALM model with
few-shot learning extensions. Our model, TempRALM, includes an
extension of the RALM retriever’s document retrieval and ranking
algorithm, to take into account both semantically and temporally
relevant documents relative to each query, rather than relying on
semantic similarity alone. We show that our approach results in up
to 74% improvement in performance over the baseline Atlas model,
while being computationally efficient. TempRALM does not require
pre-training, recalculating or replacing the document index, or the
addition of other computationally intensive elements.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 overviews
related work. We introduce our methodology and experimental
setup in Sections 3 and 4. Section 5 discusses our experimental
results. We conclude the paper with a summary and next steps in
Section 6.
2 RELATED WORK
Large Language Models (LLMs) [2], [6] and conversational inter-
faces to these models like ChatGPT [ 13], have the potential to
revolutionize our daily lives by helping people discover and under-
stand information in real-time. However, these systems are prone
to hallucinations and highly confident sounding answers that are
in fact wrong, limiting their use for knowledge-intensive tasks
such as Question-Answering, Fact Checking, etc. Retrieval Aug-
mented Language Models (RALMs)[12] offer a promising approach
to mitigating these problems, by adding a document database (also
known as document index) as a knowledge source which is used

[[page 3]]
It’s About Time: Incorporating Temporality in Retrieval Augmented Language Models
Figure 2: Retrieval Augmented Language Model with Fusion-
in-Decoder Architecture
to prompt or contextualize LLM-generated answers. Typically, a
Wikipedia snapshot is used to construct the document index of
general-purpose RALMs. When a query is made, a set of documents
are retrieved (by a retriever model within the RALM) and a re-
sponse is generated using the query and the retrieved documents
as input to an LLM. This approach has been shown to significantly
improve the performance of LLMs on knowledge intensive tasks
shown by[12]. Moreover, training the retriever does not require a
labeled mapping between queries and documents, and thus does
not introduce data labeling complexity to the training process.
To alleviate the need of large datasets for training or fine-tuning
RALMs, [8] propose Atlas, a pre-trained model with few-shot learn-
ing capabilities. It consists of a pre-trained retriever, [7], which is a
dense retriever based on the BERT [4] architecture, trained using
contrastive loss, as well as a language model, T5, [15], trained to
perform a range of sequence-to-sequence tasks, e.g., summarization,
translation, and question answering. Additionally both models are
fine-tuned jointly as a Fusion-in-Decoder [ 3] on common-crawl
data using Wikipedia as a document index. The authors showed
that Atlas performs well out-of-box and can be adapted to different
tasks such as question-answering, fact-checking, etc with as few as
64 few-shot examples.
An aspect of question answering that has emerged as a challenge
for both RALMs and LLMs are questions whose answers evolve
over over time as seen in [18]. For example, the answer to "Who
is the President of the United States?" will have a different answer
every 4 years or so.
In [5], the authors explore the challenges such questions pose
to LLMs, and show how pre-trained models on a single snapshot
of the Internet at a given point in time are inherently incapable of
answering them correctly. In their work in [8], the authors investi-
gate this problem in the context of RALMs and show that RALMs
can handle these questions better than pure LLMs, by replacing
the document index with an up-to-date document index. However,
this modifications is not sufficient to address question answering
in domains such as scientific, medical and legal publications, where
it is not easy to replace one fact with another. In addition, updates
to knowledge in these domains result in adding new documents,
rather than replacing existing documents with updated versions.
In [17], the authors also explore time-sensitive open domain QA,
where they provide a Dense Passage Retriever [10] with a query
modified with additional lingustic context, but see no improvement
for temporally dependent questions. They also found that retrieval
based models were able to update some world knowledge after
swapping the retrieval corpus and fine-tuning with newer data.
However, this approach is not efficient to keep models’ responses
up-to-date. This approach is similar to the approach used in Atlas,
where the authors use a static snapshot of Wikipedia, but swap the
corpus depending on the temporal context, which is not feasible in
scenarios where there are frequent updates in the data.
In [11], the authors proposed to collect temporally evolving
questions by sourcing from news websites. They propose a simple
solution of a RAG model with a wiki snapshot to address the ques-
tions. One limiting factor in this approach is that they use a static
index to address dynamically evolving questions. In our approach,
we handle multiple versions of each document, in order to accom-
modate cases where information is added, without needing to swap
out or invalidate prior information.
We build on the the work by [8] by proposing and evaluating,
TempRALM, a novel temporally augmented RALM with few-shot
learning capabilities, which can accommodate a document index
which contains multiple versions of documents, and does not re-
quire model re-training.
3 METHODOLOGY
In our study, we build on the Retrieval Augmented Language Model
(RALM) architecture, enhanced with few-shot learning, which was
first introduced by the Atlas model [ 8]. Notably, existing RALM
approaches, including Atlas, are not able to take into account the
temporal aspects of a query.
To that end, we augment Atlas with a novel temporal retrieval
method and evaluate the performance of the resulting model. We
overview Atlas and the details of our proposed extensions in the
remainder of this section.
3.1 RALM Overview
The RALM architecture has three core elements: a document index
which contains documents, a retriever to identify the relevant doc-
uments (from the document index) for a given query/question, and

[[page 4]]
Gade and Jetcheva, et al.
Figure 3: Example of tabular data to passage conversion. We convert relevant features of the tabular dataset to textual passages.
a language model (also called as reader) that generates the response
to the question.
The retriever identifies the𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑘 most relevant documents (or
passages) for a given query from the (typically very large corpus
of) text documents stored in the document index. The language
model takes the retrieved documents and the query as input, and
generates an answer to the query.
For our document index, we use a time-sensitive dataset that
contains text passages that refer to tennis tournament details at
different time points, described in Section 4. We use the pre-trained
Atlas generator and retriever components. The retriever is based
on the Contriever [ 7], an information retrieval approach based
on continuous dense embeddings. The generator is based on a
sequence-to-sequence T5 [15] architecture. It is combined with the
retriever with a Fusion-in-Decoder [3] modification and language
modelling adaptation.
While we validate our hypothesis using the RALM architecture
under few-shot conditions, it is important to note that our approach
could be used to extend any retriever that ranks documents using a
numerical similarity score between a query and a document corpus.
We show the RALM with fusion-in-decoder architecture in Figure 2
3.2 Semantic Retrieval Score
The core computation involved in deciding which documents are
relevant to a query is based on computing a semantic similarity-
based relevance score between the query and each document in the
index and using the dot product of their encoder representations.
In particular, for a given query 𝑞 and document𝑑, their encoder
representations are obtained independently by encoding them using
an encoder𝑓𝜃 , parameterized by𝜃, the set of trainable parameters
of the encoder.
Then the semantic score,𝑠(𝑞,𝑑) between the query𝑞 and the doc-
ument𝑑 is computed as the dot product of their resulting encoder
representations:
𝑠(𝑞,𝑑) =⟨𝑓𝜃(𝑞),𝑓 𝜃(𝑑)⟩ (1)
3.3 Temporal Score
We introduce a new method called TempRALM, which augments the
retriever with a temporal score𝜏(𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡), where𝑞𝑡 is the timestamp
of the query𝑞, and𝑑𝑡 is the timestamp of document𝑑. To calculate
𝜏(𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡), we take the reciprocal of the time difference between𝑞𝑡
and𝑑𝑡 to ensure that the temporal score is inversely proportional
to the time difference (and thus smaller differences in time result
in a larger score), and use a scaling factor𝛼 to tune the temporal
score’s importance relative to the importance of the semantic score.
The temporal score formulation is as follows:
𝜏(𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡) = 𝛼𝑠𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑒
𝑞𝑡−𝑑𝑡 (2)
To align the temporal score with the numerical range of the
semantic score𝑠(𝑞,𝑑) from equation 1, we employ a normalization
process. In particular, we subtract from each temporal score, the
mean over the temporal scores of all(𝑞,𝑑) pairs,𝜇𝜏 , and divide by
the standard deviation over the temporal scores of all(𝑞,𝑑) pairs,
𝜎𝜏 . The normalized temporal score is then scaled to the range of the
relevance score by multiplying with standard deviation of semantic
scores𝜎𝑠 and adding mean of semantic scores𝜇𝑠 (both computed
over the scores of all(𝑞,𝑑) pairs):
𝜏(𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡) = 𝜏(𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡)− 𝜇𝜏
𝜎𝜏
×𝜎𝑠+𝜇𝑠 (3)
3.4 TempRALM: A Temporally-Augmented
Retriever
To incorporate the temporal score shown in equation (3) in the re-
triever, we define an auxiliary retrieval scoring function𝑇𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑅𝑒𝑡 𝑡 ,
which is the sum of the semantic score 𝑠(𝑞,𝑑) and the temporal
score𝜏(𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡):
𝑇𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑅𝑒𝑡 𝑡(𝑞,𝑑,𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡 ) =𝑠(𝑞,𝑑)+ 𝜏(𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡) (4)
In addition, we extend the retriever by removing passages re-
lated to future information with respect to the time of the query.
In particular, we mask the retrieval score for retrieved passages
that have time stamps that are larger than the query timestamp

[[page 5]]
It’s About Time: Incorporating Temporality in Retrieval Augmented Language Models
Figure 4: Questions asking about the winner, runner-up, finalists and score asked at different timestamps, where the right
answer corresponds to the most recent tennis match that occurred before the query timestamp
(denoting passages that refer to future information relative to the
time of the event specified in the query), to completely eliminate
these passages from being considered while ranking the𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑘 . We
re-write the retrieval computation as follows:
𝑇𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑅𝑒𝑡 𝑡(𝑞,𝑑,𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡 ) =
(
𝑠(𝑞,𝑑)+ 𝜏(𝑞𝑡,𝑑𝑡) if𝑞𝑡≥𝑑𝑡
−∞, otherwise (5)
Finally, to ensure a comprehensive coverage of relevant passages,
we over-retrieve of set of documents from the retriever, and from
this over-retrieved set, the𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑘 documents with highest𝑇𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑅𝑒𝑡 𝑡
scores are passed as input to the language model. We conduct an
extensive set of experiments to find the optimal number of docu-
ments to over-retrieve. It’s important to note that our extensions
do not require re-training any part of the RALM.
3.5 Evaluation Metrics
We evaluate the effectiveness of our system on time-specific ques-
tion answering test sets. We assume a few-shot training set of
(query, timestamp, answer) triplets,
𝑄𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 ={(𝑞1,𝑞𝑡 1,𝑎 1),(𝑞2,𝑞𝑡 2,𝑎 2),... (𝑞𝑁,𝑞𝑡 𝑁,𝑎 𝑁} and evaluate
on a test set of held out queries, timestamps, and answers. Our
evaluation metric is exact-match between the predicted and ground-
truth answer for each data point in the test set.
4 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
To explore the effectiveness of our temporally augmented RALM
model, we formulated a retrieval task based on a use case where
information evolves over time. In particular, we curated a dataset
based on tennis grand slam data, where 4 major tournaments take
place every year and answers to the queries depend on when the
query is asked, with respect to the timing of the tournament. We
describe the details of the model configuration, our dataset, and
our experiments next. All of our experiments are conducted on a
single NVIDIA A100-PCIE-40GB GPU.
4.1 TempRALM Component Configuration
The TempRALM retriever uses the standard Atlas-large [ 8] con-
figuration, augmented with our temporal extensions. In particular,
it is based on a general-purpose dense retriever that uses a dual-
encoder architecture, based on the Contriever [7] and a sequence-
to-sequence model built on the Fusion-in-Decoder architecture [3]
which uses T5-1.1 [15] with a language modeling adaptation. We
initialize the retriever and generator with the same pre-training as
Atlas [8].
We chose parameters to configure TempRALM and Atlas-large
based on experimenting with a range of values across their various
hyper-parameters, including𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑘 documents to retrieve for every
question, number of training steps, retriever and language model
learning rates, and sampling temperatures.
4.2 Document Index Generation
We initially explored using Wikipedia [16] for use as a document in-
dex, as it is commonly used in knowledge intensive tasks. However,
we found that the structure of Wikipedia pages tends to make it
harder to connect events to the dates on which they occurred due to
a lot of additional text present on each page, resulting in poor model
performance. In addition, once we crawled all Wikipedia pages and
parsed the documents related to tennis grand slams, we found that
the ATP/WTA Men’s and Women’s Singles Tournament Tennis
data table [9] actually contains was more detailed information for
each event, such as who played which match, dates and locations of
games. In fact, as tables are a common way to summarize details of
events, we believe that exploring their use for training, fine tuning
or prompting LLMs is an important direction to explore. We take
an initial step towards this goal in this paper.
We started out by filtering the ATP table by the following 4
grand slams: Australian Open, Roland Garros, Wimbledon and US
Open. We then converted each row of the table into a passage of
text described in natural language, covering tournament names,
winner names, date of match and final scores. We also extracted
the timestamp from the row, in the format, 𝑌𝑌𝑌𝑌 −𝑀𝑀−𝐷𝐷
and attached it the passage as metadata. We span tournaments
from 1978 to 2019, yielding to 50,000 documents. The process is
illustrated in Figure 3.
4.3 Training and Evaluation Data
Since our focus is on temporally aware question answering, we use
the following input data format for our model: (query, timestamp,
answer). The time stamp captures the time at which a query is
asked, and the answer corresponds to the answer which is valid at
the time the query is posed.
For instance, given the query "Who won the Australian Open
Women’s singles final?" posed on May 14, 2012, the correct response
should indicate the player who held the title of Australian Open
Women’s singles champion as of May 14, 2012. It’s crucial to note
that the response to the same query changes as soon as a new
Australian Open tournament completes.
4.3.1 Few-Shot Training Set. We create 3 non-overlapping few-
shot training sets of size 32, 64 and 128 data points each. Each data

[[page 6]]
Gade and Jetcheva, et al.
TPQ-2019 Test Set Exact Match TPQ-2020 Test Set Exact Match
Train Set Atlas TempRALM Atlas TempRALM
32 64.84 71.72 37.65 55.93
64 74.68 75.78 40.93 68.44
128 76.88 77.80 41.72 72.65
Table 1: Comparing Temporal Proximity with Time based token matching: We evaluate the retrieval performance of two query
sets - TPQ-2019 and TPQ-2020 - which contain identical questions about an event that occurred in 2019 but have timestamps
from two consecutive years, to simulate the time-frame in which the queries are made. This table presents the performance
comparison between the Atlas-large model and TempRALM. Both models were fine-tuned on a limited training sets comprising
32, 64, and 128 time-suffixed question-answer pairs. A robust model is expected to accurately address queries based on their
temporal closeness to passages relevant to the event, rather than relying solely on matching year tokens within the queries and
passages. Our model demonstrates strong performance across both query sets.
point has the format (query, timestamp, answer). Each training set
is constructed to provide a balanced distribution of query types,
e.g., queries about winners, runners-up, finalists, and final match
scores, spanning all four major tennis tournaments from 1978 to
2018.
We chose the sizes of the few-shot learning training sets based
on recommendations by the Atlas authors [8], who found that 64
training examples typically result in reasonable performance. We
added 32 and 128-shot experiments in order to observe the impact
of training set size in our specific scenario.
4.3.2 Test sets. We created two evaluation test sets, each of size
128, which use ground truth triplets using the same format and
content as the training set, except focusing on tournament data for
2019, creating a clear separation between the training and test sets.
We refer to these test sets as Temporal Proximity Query sets (TPQs),
namely TPQ-2019 and TPQ-2020. Both query sets contain identical
questions pertaining to the matches that occurred in 2019 but have
timestamps from two consecutive years, 2019 and 2020 respectively.
This enables us to simulate two temporal contexts. For instance,
given the question ’Who won the US Open Women’s singles final?’,
TPQ-2019 would time stamp the query as being posed in 2019, e.g.,
with 12-31-2019, whereas TPQ-2020 would timestamp the query
as being posed in 2020, e.g., 01-01-2020. The answer in both cases
refers to the U.S. Open tournament which took place in September
2019.
Answering the question correctly requires the model to go be-
yond textual pattern matching, and to have (or be able to simulate)
temporal awareness that enables it to determine proximity between
dates. Figure 4 shows how we constructed queries relevant to a
particular passage.
5 RESULTS
For our baseline experiment, we compare the performance of Tem-
pRALM to Atlas-large on TPQ-2019 and TPQ-2020 test sets in 32,
64, and 128 few-shot training scenarios, using an exact match met-
ric. In addition, we evaluate the retrievers of both models using
a recall@1 and recall@5 metrics, which compute the number of
times the correct passage is in the top 1 or top 5 results returned
by the retriever respectively. We discuss our results next.
5.1 Comparison between TempRALM and
Atlas-large
We compare the performance of TempRALM and Atlas-large on
both the TPQ-2019 and TPQ-2020 test sets, using an exact match
metric (Table 1). Each experiment was run 5 times and the results
in the table are the average of the 5 runs. We observe that when
the timestamp year of the query matches that of the event (and
thus the date referenced in the corresponding text passage), the
unmodified Atlas model performs comparably to TempRALM. In
these scenarios, the semantic score captures the matching date
pattern between the query and the passage. However, when the
year in the timestamp of the query does not match that in the
text passage (TPQ-2020 experiments), TempRALM outperforms
unmodified Atlas by 49% in the 32 few-shot learning experiment,
67% in the 64 few-shot learning experiment, and 74% in the 128
few-shot learning experiment. This illustrates that our temporal
augmentation plays a key role in the overall answer generations
since the the year in the query and passages no longer match, and
the time proximity between different time stamps is not captured
by the similarity score, but only by our temporal extensions.
Our findings also indicate that as the number of examples in the
few shot training increase, our temporal augmentation becomes
increasingly more impactful.
Similarly to the findings in [8], we find that at few-shot training
with 64 examples, model performance starts to be reasonable, and
improves slowly for 128 training examples. We show the Exact
match performance in Table 1
5.2 Retriever performance analysis
We observed instances where TempRALM successfully retrieves the
gold passage (which contains the correct answer), but the answer
generated by the LLM is wrong, indicating that the problem in
those examples lies with the LLM.
To quantify this behavior, we calculated the number of times the
retriever ranked the gold passage as the top retrieved document
(recall@1) and also the number of times the retriever ranked the
gold passage in the top 5 retrieved passages (recall@5) for both
TempRALM and Atlas-large. Our results, shown in Table 2, illustrate
that temporal retrieval improves both Recall@1 and Recall@5, and

[[page 7]]
It’s About Time: Incorporating Temporality in Retrieval Augmented Language Models
this improvement is the most pronounced in the Recall@1 for the
TPQ-2020 experiments, where TempRALM improves over Atlas-
large by a factor of 165%. These experiments illustrate both the
inability of Atlas-large’s retriever to handle temporal data, and
TempRALM’s impressive ability to compensate for that.
TPQ-2019 TPQ-2020
Model Recall@1 Recall@5 Recall@1 Recall@5
Atlas-Large 0.54 0.63 0.24 0.63
TempRALM 0.63 0.75 0.64 0.75
Table 2: Retriever Recall Metrics: We calculate the recall in
64-shot training example setting. We choose an experiment
closest to the average exact match of all our 64-shot Atlas
and TempRALM experiments.
5.3 Model Size Performance: Large vs Base
Model
We evaluated the performance on the Atlas large model that has
(reader 770M / retriever 110 M) Parameters. We also compared
performance on the Base ( Reader 220M / retriever 110M) model,
and show that the temporal retrieval works better across different
model sizes. In table 3, we compare the Exact Match performance of
a 64-shot experiment setting experiment for Atlas and TempRALM.
Test Set Exact Match
Model Size TPQ-2019 TPQ-2020
Atlas Base 42.97 28.13
TempRALM Base 56.25 35.94
Atlas Large 74.68 40.93
TempRALM Large 75.78 68.44
Table 3: Model Size Performance: We compare the Exact
Match in 64-shot training example setting between Atlas
and TempRALM across base and large models.
6 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
In this study, we introduced and evaluated TempRALM, a Retriever
Augmented Language Model (RALM) augmented with temporal
awareness. Unlike conventional RALM approaches that rely solely
on semantic similarity, TempRALM considers both semantic and
temporal relevance when selecting documents to pass to its Large
Language Model (LLM) in response to a given query. Our results
indicate an improvement in performance of up to 74% compared to
the Atlas-large model, even when multiple versions of documents
(from different time points) are present in the document index.
Notably, we achieve this without the need for model pre-training,
replacing the document index with an updated index, or adding any
of other computationally intensive elements. We plan to explore a
number of avenues for building on the work presented in this paper,
such as implementing and evaluating different learning strategies
for the parameters of our temporal relevance function, and explor-
ing the interplay between the retriever and LLM. Furthermore, we
plan to explore the use of our temporal retrieval approach in other
tasks such as fact checking, recommender systems, and retrieval
augmented dialog agents.
REFERENCES
[1] Arxiv. 1991. Arxiv. https://arxiv.org
[2] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan,
Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural
information processing systems 33 (2020), 1877–1901.
[3] Michiel de Jong, Yury Zemlyanskiy, Joshua Ainslie, Nicholas FitzGerald, Sumit
Sanghai, Fei Sha, and William Cohen. 2023. FiDO: Fusion-in-Decoder optimized
for stronger performance and faster inference. arXiv:2212.08153 [cs.CL]
[4] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding.
CoRR abs/1810.04805 (2018). arXiv:1810.04805 http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805
[5] Bhuwan Dhingra, Jeremy R. Cole, Julian Martin Eisenschlos, Daniel Gillick,
Jacob Eisenstein, and William W. Cohen. 2021. Time-Aware Language Models
as Temporal Knowledge Bases. CoRR abs/2106.15110 (2021). arXiv:2106.15110
https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.15110
[6] Rohan Anil Google, Andrew M. Dai, Orhan Firat, Melvin Johnson, Dmitry Lep-
ikhin, Alexandre Passos, Siamak Shakeri, Emanuel Taropa, Paige Bailey, Zhifeng
Chen, Eric Chu, Jonathan H. Clark, Laurent El Shafey, Yanping Huang, Kathy
Meier-Hellstern, Gaurav Mishra, Erica Moreira, Mark Omernick, Kevin Robinson,
Sebastian Ruder, Yi Tay, Kefan Xiao, Yuanzhong Xu, Yujing Zhang, Gustavo Her-
nandez Abrego, Junwhan Ahn, Jacob Austin, Paul Barham, Jan Botha, James
Bradbury, Siddhartha Brahma, Kevin Brooks, Michele Catasta, Yong Cheng, Colin
Cherry, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Clément Crepy,
Shachi Dave, Mostafa Dehghani, Sunipa Dev, Jacob Devlin, Mark Díaz, Nan Du,
Ethan Dyer, Vlad Feinberg, Fangxiaoyu Feng, Vlad Fienber, Markus Freitag,
Xavier Garcia, Sebastian Gehrmann, Lucas Gonzalez, Guy Gur-Ari, Steven Hand,
Hadi Hashemi, Le Hou, Joshua Howland, Andrea Hu, Jeffrey Hui, Jeremy Hurwitz,
Michael Isard, Abe Ittycheriah, Matthew Jagielski, Wenhao Jia, Kathleen Kenealy,
Maxim Krikun, Sneha Kudugunta, Chang Lan, Katherine Lee, Benjamin Lee, Eric
Li, Music Li, Wei Li, YaGuang Li, Jian Li, Hyeontaek Lim, Hanzhao Lin, Zhong-
tao Liu, Frederick Liu, Marcello Maggioni, Aroma Mahendru, Joshua Maynez,
Vedant Misra, Maysam Moussalem, Zachary Nado, John Nham, Eric Ni, Andrew
Nystrom, Alicia Parrish, Marie Pellat, Martin Polacek, Alex Polozov, Reiner Pope,
Siyuan Qiao, Emily Reif, Bryan Richter, Parker Riley, Alex Castro Ros, Aurko Roy,
Brennan Saeta, Rajkumar Samuel, Renee Shelby, Ambrose Slone, Daniel Smilkov,
David R. So, Daniel Sohn, Simon Tokumine, Dasha Valter, Vijay Vasudevan, Kiran
Vodrahalli, Xuezhi Wang, Pidong Wang, Zirui Wang, Tao Wang, John Wieting,
Yuhuai Wu, Kelvin Xu, Yunhan Xu, Linting Xue, Pengcheng Yin, Jiahui Yu, Qiao
Zhang, Steven Zheng, Ce Zheng, Weikang Zhou, Denny Zhou, Slav Petrov, and
Yonghui Wu. 2023. PaLM 2 Technical Report. arXiv:2305.10403 [cs.CL]
[7] Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Sebastian Riedel, Piotr Bo-
janowski, Armand Joulin, and Edouard Grave. 2021. Towards Unsupervised
Dense Information Retrieval with Contrastive Learning. CoRR abs/2112.09118
(2021). arXiv:2112.09118 https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.09118
[8] Gautier Izacard, Patrick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lucas Hosseini, Fabio Petroni,
Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and Edouard
Grave. 2022. Atlas: Few-shot Learning with Retrieval Augmented Language
Models. arXiv:2208.03299 [cs.CL]
[9] kaggle taylorbrownlow. [n. d.].
[10] Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oğuz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey
Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen tau Yih. 2020. Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-
Domain Question Answering. arXiv:2004.04906 [cs.CL]
[11] Jungo Kasai, Keisuke Sakaguchi, Yoichi Takahashi, Ronan Le Bras, Akari Asai,
Xinyan Yu, Dragomir Radev, Noah A. Smith, Yejin Choi, and Kentaro Inui. 2022.
RealTime QA: What’s the Answer Right Now? arXiv:2207.13332 [cs.CL]
[12] Patrick S. H. Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir
Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim
Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-Augmented
Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks. CoRR abs/2005.11401 (2020).
arXiv:2005.11401 https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11401
[13] Yiheng Liu, Tianle Han, Siyuan Ma, Jiayue Zhang, Yuanyuan Yang, Jiaming Tian,
Hao He, Antong Li, Mengshen He, Zhengliang Liu, et al . 2023. Summary of
chatgpt/gpt-4 research and perspective towards the future of large language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.01852 (2023).

[[page 8]]
Gade and Jetcheva, et al.
[14] Fabio Petroni, Tim Rocktäschel, Patrick S. H. Lewis, Anton Bakhtin, Yuxiang Wu,
Alexander H. Miller, and Sebastian Riedel. 2019. Language Models as Knowledge
Bases? CoRR abs/1909.01066 (2019). arXiv:1909.01066 http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.
01066
[15] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang,
Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2019. Exploring the
Limits of Transfer Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text Transformer. CoRR
abs/1910.10683 (2019). arXiv:1910.10683 http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.10683
[16] Wikipedia. 2001. Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. https://wikipedia.org
[17] Michael J. Q. Zhang and Eunsol Choi. 2021. SituatedQA: Incorporating Extra-
Linguistic Contexts into QA. arXiv:2109.06157 [cs.CL]
[18] Wayne Xin Zhao, Jing Liu, Ruiyang Ren, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2022. Dense Text Re-
trieval based on Pretrained Language Models: A Survey. arXiv:2211.14876 [cs.IR]