[[page 1]]
Bridging Dual Knowledge Graphs for Multi-Hop Question Answering in Construction
Safety
Yuxin Zhanga, Xi Wanga, Mo Hua, Zhenyu Zhanga,∗
aDepartment of Construction Science, College of Architecture, Texas A&M University, College Station, USA
Abstract
Information retrieval and question answering from safety regulations are essential for automated construction compliance checking
but are hindered by the linguistic and structural complexity of regulatory text. Many queries are multi-hop, requiring synthesis
across interlinked clauses. To address the challenge, this paper introduces BifrostRAG, a dual-graph retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) system that models both linguistic relationships and document structure. The proposed architecture supports a hybrid
retrieval mechanism that combines graph traversal with vector-based semantic search, enabling large language models to reason
over both the content and the structure of the text. On a multi-hop question dataset, BifrostRAG achieves 92.8% precision, 85.5%
recall, and an F1 score of 87.3%. These results significantly outperform vector-only and graph-only RAG baselines, establishing
BifrostRAG as a robust knowledge engine for LLM-driven compliance checking. The dual-graph, hybrid retrieval mechanism
presented in this paper offers a transferable blueprint for navigating complex technical documents across knowledge-intensive
engineering domains.
Note:This is an accepted manuscript of an article published inAutomation in Construction. The final authenticated version is
available online athttps://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2026.106794.
Keywords:Retrieval augmented generation, Artificial intelligence, Knowledge graph, Multi-hop question answering,
Construction safety, Large language model
1. Introduction
Construction is one of the most hazardous industries in the
United States, accounting for nearly 20% of work-related fa-
talities across all industries [1]. While many incidents are pre-
ventable through proper safety enforcement, increasingly com-
plex regulations present significant implementation challenges
[2, 3]. Safety standards have grown more intricate due to an
expanding understanding of hazards and the continuous devel-
opment of new safety equipment [4]. This regulatory complex-
ity particularly affects workers with limited literacy, who strug-
gle to comprehend dense safety documents [5]. To address this
accessibility gap, knowledge retrieval and question-answering
(QA) systems have emerged as promising solutions to sim-
plify and clarify safety regulations for construction stakeholders
[6, 7]. These QA systems also serve as critical components in
automated field compliance checking systems [8, 9, 10]. Cur-
rent compliance technologies integrate computer vision with
natural language processing (NLP): first identifying objects and
site conditions from field imagery, then mapping these ob-
servations to relevant regulatory requirements [11, 12]. With
the recent advance of generative artificial intelligence (AI),
∗Corresponding author
Email addresses:yuxin0922@tamu.edu(Yuxin Zhang),
xiwang@tamu.edu(Xi Wang),mohu@tamu.edu(Mo Hu),
z.zhang@tamu.edu(Zhenyu Zhang)
QA systems are into incorporating retrieval-augmented gener-
ation (RAG) techniques, which enhance large language mod-
els (LLMs) by grounding their outputs in external regulatory
knowledge [13]. The effectiveness of this compliance assess-
ment pipeline fundamentally depends on the RAG integration
that can accurately retrieve and interpret applicable safety rules.
A fundamental challenge in regulatory information retrieval
stems from the linguistic and structural complexity of safety
regulations. In addition to being rich in specialized domain
knowledge, regulatory texts often feature multi-hop conditional
logic and exceptions, further compounding their interpretive
difficulty [6, 7]. Multi-hop questions are queries that require
retrieving and synthesizing multiple interdependent pieces of
information, often distributed across different sections or doc-
uments. For example, the Occupational Safety and Health Act
for Construction (OSHA 1926) often states a general applica-
bility in one provision while placing exceptions or complemen-
tary information in entirely different sections. The manifesta-
tion of such relationship can vary considerably: some are ex-
plicitly indicated through direct citations or hierarchical refer-
encing, whereas others remain implicit, emerging from shared
terminology or logical inference without being clearly stated in
the text [14] (See examples from Table 2 in Section 3.2). This
structure necessitates QA systems capable of handling multi-
hop questions by effectively locating, retrieving, and integrating
dispersed information [11]. Identifying these latent connections
is crucial for reliable regulatory interpretation and compliance
arXiv:2507.13625v2  [cs.AI]  11 May 2026

[[page 2]]
guidance.
However, identifying and translating regulatory relationships
into machine-readable formats for multi-hop QA remains lim-
ited. Only a few studies have approached this challenge: Lee
et al. developed a keyword-based approach for Korean OSHA
standards, linking sections through shared terminology to facil-
itate clustered retrieval [13]. Advancing this concept, Chen et
al. created an algorithmic method for water conservancy con-
struction safety regulations that can filter out weak connections
between keywords, thereby forming robust information net-
works from previously scattered document content [14]. In ad-
dition, Wu et al. developed a RAG-LLM system that structures
construction data into a hierarchical knowledge tree to cap-
ture parent-child relationships, contextualizing child sections
within broader textual frameworks [15]. However, significant
knowledge gaps persist. Existing methods inadequately address
cross-referencing scenarios and implicit relationships. Further-
more, while researchers have examined some relationship types
in isolation, the field lacks a comprehensive framework for ad-
dressing the various relationship patterns within safety regu-
lations. Prior research only focuses on single-hop questions
or lack clear evidence of multi-hop question assessment. This
leaves unexplored the systems’ ability to navigate scenarios re-
quiring multi-hop information retrieval across provisions con-
nected through cross-references, shared terminologies, or rele-
vant scopes.
To address these limitations, this paper developed Bifros-
tRAG1, a dual knowledge graph-enhanced RAG system that
captures both explicit and implicit relationships between con-
struction safety rules. BifrostRAG integrates two comple-
mentary knowledge graphs to map hierarchical structures and
cross references while also connecting conceptually related
provisions. Knowledge graphs provide an intuitive abstrac-
tion of regulatory entities and their relationships, enabling effi-
cient traversal across interconnected information when queried
[16, 17]. This capability makes knowledge graphs particularly
promising for addressing knowledge-intensive tasks that re-
quire integrating multiple regulatory provisions [18]. Notably,
BifrostRAG integrates LLMs into the pipeline to automate crit-
ical tasks, including entity extraction, relation identification,
and mapping of regulatory relationships. While researchers
have begun exploring using deep learning models to construct
knowledge graphs for construction compliance, they focus on
linguistic complexities at the sentence level, such as resolving
ambiguities and capturing non-verbal relations [19, 20, 21, 22].
BifrostRAG addresses not only these sentence-level challenges,
but also the higher-level structural integration needed to navi-
gate connections between regulatory provisions. BifrostRAG
is specifically designed to accommodate the unique structural
and linguistic complexities of regulatory documents. The pro-
1The framework is named “BifrostRAG” after Bifrost, the rainbow bridge
in Norse mythology that connects distinct realms. This nomenclature reflects
the framework’s core function: bridging fragmented safety regulations through
dual knowledge graphs and hybrid retrieval to synthesize diverse information.
The name underscores the architectural duality and hybrid mechanism that dis-
tinguish this approach from existing single-graph RAG systems.
posed zero-shot LLM approach eliminates the need for manu-
ally crafted ontologies and specialized training processes, mak-
ing the system more adaptable and maintainable.
In the evaluation using 93 multi-hop questions, BifrostRAG
significantly outperformed two state-of-the-art alternatives: a
general-purpose knowledge graph RAG system (Neo4j) and
OpenAI’s default vector-based RAG solution. These results
confirm that handling regulatory relationships in safety stan-
dards remains challenging for even advanced natural language
retrieval techniques. To address these critical challenges, this
paper introduces BifrostRAG, a RAG system featuring a dual
knowledge graph architecture designed to explicitly model both
explicit and implicit relationships within construction safety
regulations. Leveraging a hybrid retrieval mechanism that com-
bines structured graph traversal with semantic vector-based
search, BifrostRAG enables LLMs to effectively retrieve and
synthesize fragmented regulatory information for multi-hop
question answering. This paper provides a scalable solution that
enhances regulation accessibility and regulatory compliance as-
sessments for construction safety professionals.
2. Research Background and Challenges
This section reviews the OSHA 1926 regulatory document
and analyzes its complexity, which poses substantial challenges
for multi-hop regulatory QA. The identified multi-hop patterns
within the document serve as a conceptual foundation for the
subsequent literature review, system design, and evaluation.
2.1. OSHA Standards Naming and Numbering System
Occupational safety and health surveillance is recognized as
a critical determinant influencing the successful execution of
construction projects. In the United States, this regulatory com-
mitment is exemplified through OSHA Part 1926–the Safety
and Health Regulations for Construction Act. These regula-
tions encapsulate a multifaceted approach to workplace safety,
including hazard identification and prevention, site inspections,
training, planning, accident investigations and reporting pro-
cedures, and safety performance. OSHA Part 1926 follows a
systematic hierarchical structure with standardized naming and
numbering conventions, as illustrated in Figure 1. The regula-
tion organizes content into subparts, with each section using a
parent-child framework that progresses from broad categories
to specific requirements. For example, section 1926.500(a)
branches into subsection 1926.500(a)(2), which further subdi-
vides into 1926.500(a)(2)(i). This nested structure uses lower-
case letters, Arabic numerals, and lowercase Roman numerals
to maintain clear organizational flow. The regulation also in-
corporates extensive cross-references between f sections across
different subparts, creating an interconnected network of regu-
latory requirements.
2.2. Structure of Safety Regulations
Safety regulatory frameworks, exemplified by OSHA 1926,
constitute complex networks of interconnected provisions
2

[[page 3]]
Figure 1: Structure of OSHA 1926
rather than collections of isolated rules. Compliance neces-
sitates understanding both individual provisions and their re-
lationships. Within OSHA 1926, four primary relationship
patterns characterize provision interactions: exception, condi-
tional, complementary, and cross-cutting relationships, as de-
tailed in Table 1.
These inter-provision relationships emerge through four un-
derlying mechanisms: cross-reference, hierarchical structure,
shared terminology, and logical necessity, with their descrip-
tion provided in Table 2. While cross-references and hierarchi-
cal structures provide explicit provision-to-provision mappings,
many connections are implicit. Regulatory citations often cre-
ate ambiguity when one provision refers broadly to an entire
subpart without specifying a section. In these cases, provisions
are linked conceptually through shared terminology or logical
necessity rather than through structural elements or explicit ref-
erences. The varied mechanisms expressing both explicit and
implicit relationships present significant challenges for conven-
tional NLP techniques. Further complicating identification ef-
forts is the inconsistent writing style across different parts of the
OSHA 1926 standard, which hinders pattern recognition and
uniform interpretation. These variations in regulatory language
create barriers to automated compliance assessment and high-
light the need for more sophisticated analytical approaches.
2.3. Multi-hop Questions
Due to the structural complexity of safety regulations, safety
professionals frequently encounter questions that require in-
tegrating information from multiple, non-contiguous provi-
sions—a process known as multi-hop QA [23, 11]. This pro-
cess demands navigation through the relationship types and en-
abling mechanisms described in Table 1 and 2. To illustrate
this multi-hop process, consider this safety question: “Can a
combination of a warning line system and personal fall arrest
system be used for all types of leading-edge work?” Answer-
ing this question requires traversing several provisions through
interconnected steps:
•First hop: §1926.501(b)(2)(i) establishes the fundamental
requirements for leading edge work conducted 6 feet or
more above lower levels, notably excluding warning line
systems from permitted fall protection options.
•Second hop: Through an explicit cross-reference,
§1926.501(b)(2)(i) directs to §1926.502(k), which allows
for alternative fall protection plans when standard systems
prove infeasible, though still not permitting warning line
systems.
•Third hop: §1926.501(b)(10), which shares terminology
with §1926.501(b)(2)(i), permits “a combination of warn-
ing line system and personal fall arrest system,” but applies
conditionally only to “roofing work on low-slope roofs.”
•Fourth hop: §1926.501(b)(12), which shares terminol-
ogy with §1926.501(b)(2)(i) and (b)(10), addresses pre-
cast concrete erection with requirements similar to leading
edge work, yet maintains the prohibition on warning line
systems.
This example demonstrates how answering a one-to-many-
reference, multi-hop question requires navigating a complex
web of conditional requirements and exceptions across different
regulatory contexts. The process involves both explicit cross-
references and implicit connections through shared terminol-
ogy, illustrating the intricate interplay between various relation-
ship types and enabling mechanisms in regulatory interpreta-
tion.
3. Literature Review
This section reviews recent advances in knowledge graphs,
RAG, and LLM-enabled regulatory QA. It emphasizes the lim-
itations of existing representative approaches in handling com-
plex, multi-hop queries.
3.1. Knowledge Graph
The complex, multi-hop nature of regulatory QA suggests the
need for more structured representation of regulatory knowl-
edge. Knowledge graphs offer a promising solution by explic-
itly modeling relationships between regulatory provisions as
formalized, machine-readable structures. A knowledge graph
represents interlinked entities–objects, concepts, and events–
within a graph-structured data network where relationships are
explicitly encoded [24, 25]. This structure provides an intuitive
framework for efficient knowledge retrieval [17]. Since the ad-
vent of Semantic Web technologies, the termknowledge graph
has gained significant traction in both academic research and
industry [26, 27]. It is widely employed in applications such as
search engines [28] and social media platforms [29, 30]. They
3

[[page 4]]
Table 1: Taxonomy of Relationship Types in OSHA 1926 Regulatory Framework
Relationship Description Example Sources
Exception Provisions that establish specific
exemptions or modifications to a general
rule under defined circumstances
§1926.451(b)(2) establishes that scaffold
platforms must be at least 18 inches wide,
except as provided in §1926.451(b)(2)(i)
and (ii), which permit narrower platforms in
restricted areas.
OSHA, Letters of
Interpretation
(12/12/1996;
04/16/2002;
10/23/2002;
03/03/2010)2345
Conditional Provisions whose requirements are activated
or varied based on specific triggering
conditions or scenarios
§1926.451(g)(1)(i) through (vii) establish
fall protection requirements based on
different scaffold type
OSHA, Letters of
Interpretation
(09/14/2006 ;
04/05/2005;
08/06/2002)678
Complementary Multiple provisions addressing distinct
aspects of the same safety objective, which
must be applied concurrently for full
compliance
§1926.501(b)(4)(ii) requires holes to be
protected by covers. §1926.502(i) provides
the necessary performance specifications.
Both provisions are required for complete
compliance.
OSHA, Letters of
Interpretation
(11/17/2004 ;
12/22/2003)910
Cross-Cutting Provisions related to different compliance
objectives that must nevertheless be applied
jointly in specific operational contexts due
to overlapping scope
During heavy rain, a foreman must
simultaneously apply §1926.651(k)(1) for
workplace inspections and §1926.651(h) for
water accumulation control, as both address
different but concurrent safety concerns.
OSHA, Letters of
Interpretation
(09/30/1991;
03/23/1992;
08/10/2000)111213
are particularly valuable for multi-hop QA systems due to their
structured representation and traceable information pathways.
Knowledge graphs store information in specialized graph
databases that optimize management of graph-structured data.
These systems represent information as nodes (entities) con-
nected by edges (relationships). Users retrieve information by
formulating queries in languages such as SPARQL or Cypher
that specify relationship patterns, typically following a triple
format: (head entity, relation, tail entity). For example, Zhu
et al. demonstrated this query-based approach by mapping a
knowledge graph onto BIM data to identify quality compliance
violations [31].
Knowledge graph construction traditionally relies on exten-
sive manual effort guided by ontologies–predefined rules spec-
ifying entity categories and relationships within hierarchical
structures [32]. However, knowledge graph construction re-
mains a challenging process due to the integration of large vol-
umes of heterogeneous metadata, ambiguity in text, complex
nested entities, and the presence of noise such as homonyms.
Traditional methods often resort to human experts to manu-
ally design ontologies, populate them with instances, and vali-
date factual accuracy while ensuring traceability of data prove-
nance [32]. Apart from the substantial time and cost incurred,
the traditional methods are more vulnerable to subjective inter-
pretations. Moreover, such approaches can also significantly
compromise completeness and consistency, leading to missing
critical facts. To address these limitations, recent efforts have
shifted toward machine learning-based techniques [33, 34, 35],
with statistical models, convolutional neural networks, and
transformer architectures demonstrating promising capabilities
in resolving linguistic ambiguities, interpreting numeric or con-
ditional thresholds, and balancing granularity in entity and re-
lation extraction [36, 20]. One of the most promising tools for
efficiently constructing knowledge graphs is LLMs.
3.2. LLMs and Knowledge Graph
LLMs are transformer-based neural networks pre-trained on
vast corpora of text, enabling them to understand and generate
natural language with fluency and contextual awareness [37].
However, it tends to face problems such as information halluci-
nations and catastrophic forgetting when it encounters domain-
specific questions, where the RAG has become a powerful solu-
tion for fetching relevant documents from external knowledge
sources and makes them available in the LLMs’ input prompt
[38, 39, 40, 41]. Given their advanced linguistic and reasoning
capabilities, researchers are increasingly exploring how LLMs
can support knowledge graph applications with three integra-
tion strategies emerging in recent literature [42].
The first approach, LLM-augmented knowledge graphs,
leverages LLMs as sophisticated text processors to support
knowledge graph construction and querying. In this model,
LLMs identify entities, relationships, and attributes across text
corpora and map them into structured graph formats [32]. For
example, Zhu et al. found that GPT-4 outperforms fine-tuned
models in knowledge graph construction while reducing man-
ual annotation work [43]. For query generation, Meyer et al.
demonstrated LLMs can effectively generate syntactically cor-
rect SPARQL queries from natural language questions, making
knowledge graphs more accessible to non-technical users [44].
The second approach, knowledge graph-enhanced LLMs,
addresses an inherent limitation of LLMs: hallucination, or
the generation of plausible but factually incorrect information.
RAG offers a solution by supplementing LLMs with externally
retrieved information [38, 39, 40, 41]. While traditional RAG
systems rely on vector embeddings, knowledge graphs provide
additional advantages through their explicitly structured rela-
tionships [45], which are particularly valuable for multi-hop
QA tasks.
The third approach involves a fully synergistic integration
where LLMs and knowledge graphs enhance each other [42].
4

[[page 5]]
Table 2: Enabling Mechanisms for Regulatory Relationships in OSHA 1926
Mechanism Description Example
Cross-reference (explicit) Explicit citations that create direct
links between provisions, establish-
ing unambiguous pathways for nav-
igation and compliance.
§1926.502(b)(15) on synthetic rope inspection directly references
§1926.502(b)(3) for strength criteria, creating a clear complementary
relationship between the provisions.
Hierarchical structure
(explicit)
Formal organization where par-
ent provisions establish general re-
quirements or context, governing
the application of more specific
child provisions
§1926.451(d)(10) serves as a parent provision establishing general in-
spection requirements for suspension scaffold ropes, while its child pro-
visions (1926.451(d)(10)(i)-1926.451(d)(10)(vi)) specify when identi-
fied defects trigger replacement requirements.
Shared terminology
(implicit)
Provisions linked conceptually us-
ing common terms, even without
direct citation
§1926.651(e) mandates protect employees from falling materiel while
§1926.651(j)(2) details specifications for falling material prevention in
excavation. Though not explicitly linked, these provisions are con-
nected through shared terminology.
Relevant scope (implicit) Multiple regulatory provisions ap-
ply to the relevant set of activities,
conditions, equipment, or work-
places.
§1926.651(k)(1) requires inspections during and after rainstorms, while
§1926.651(h) outlines control measures for accumulated water. Al-
though these provisions do not reference each other directly or share
terminology, they share logically relevant condition: once a hazard is
identified, appropriate safety controls are triggered
In this paradigm, knowledge graphs provide grounded factual
knowledge to detect and correct potential hallucinations, while
LLMs offer nuanced language understanding for autonomous
knowledge graph construction and maintenance [46, 47, 48].
This bidirectional enhancement creates systems capable of both
factual accuracy and linguistic interpretation, which is an ideal
combination for complex regulatory compliance applications.
3.3. Research Gaps
Current research leveraging knowledge graphs to navigate
the intricate web of interconnections within regulatory docu-
ments for multi-hop QA remains limited. While numerous
studies have applied knowledge graphs at the sentence or provi-
sion level, their primary aim has often been to resolve linguistic
ambiguities or extract specific requirements within individual
clauses [19, 20, 21, 22], rather than mapping the critical struc-
tural relationships between provisions that dictate overall com-
pliance logic.
Table 3 summarizes what has been explored in information
retrieval for construction documents and what remains unad-
dressed in the previous work. Although recent work lever-
ages semantic embeddings to retrieve similar keywords or pas-
sages, few studies directly tackle the structural complexity of
documents. Lee et al., working with Korean OSHA standards,
proposed a method linking sections based on shared terminol-
ogy and then ranking clusters based on interconnections [13].
Chen et al. tackled similar document fragmentation challenges
but focused their efforts earlier in the process during entity
relationship extraction [14]. They developed algorithmic fil-
ters that assess relationships based on frequency and predic-
tive power, extracting only the most meaningful connections to
reduce the noise problem typically found in knowledge graph
applications. Wu et al. addressed a different aspect of regula-
tory complexity by developing a hierarchical knowledge tree
for construction management documents [15]. It effectively
addressed limitations of vector-based RAG systems that seg-
ment documents based on fixed token limits–a practice that
often separates parent-child provisions into different chunks,
compromising contextual understanding and retrieval accuracy.
Their hierarchical approach successfully preserved parent-child
relationships, ensuring topical coherence. Despite these ad-
vances, existing studies address only two of four critical struc-
tural relationship types, failing to capture the complete taxon-
omy of relationships within safety regulations. Furthermore,
their evaluations focus exclusively on single-hop questions or
lack clear evidence of multi-hop question assessment. This
leaves unexplored the systems’ ability to navigate scenarios re-
quiring multi-hop information retrieval across provisions con-
nected through cross-references, shared terminologies, or rele-
vant scopes.
The potential for synergistic integration of LLMs with
knowledge graphs remains largely conceptual in the context of
safety regulations, especially concerning multi-hop QA. Crit-
ical gaps persist, including a lack of thorough evaluation of
LLM capabilities for accurately extracting entities and the di-
verse types of relationships (explicit and implicit) from nuanced
regulatory text. A particularly significant barrier lies in inter-
facing with knowledge graphs via traditional query languages
like SPARQL and Cypher. These demand exact syntactic and
semantic matches between the query and the KG schema [49].
Even minor discrepancies in entity or relationship naming can
lead to query failure. This brittleness is especially problematic
in domains like construction safety regulations, characterized
by referential ambiguity and inconsistent terminology, making
it difficult for non-expert users and LLMs to formulate correct
queries. For instance, Meyer et al. demonstrated that while
LLMs can generate syntactically valid SPARQL, they often fail
to correctly utilize the predefined classes, properties, and pre-
fixes specific to a given knowledge graph schema [44]. Despite
recognition of this query formulation challenge, the literature
5

[[page 6]]
offers few robust solutions.
In summary, existing research lacks (1) comprehensive
frameworks capable of identifying, representing, and reasoning
over the full spectrum of relationship types within safety reg-
ulations; (2) rigorous validation on the capacity of knowledge
graph-based systems to handle multi-hop QA; and (3) effec-
tive strategies for integrating LLMs with knowledge graphs to
overcome knowledge extraction limitations and the query preci-
sion bottleneck with empirical evidence. To address these lim-
itations, this paper introduces an end-to-end methodology that
leverages LLMs to address the challenges of navigating com-
plex safety regulations. Moving beyond previous approaches in
literature that rely solely on keyword matching or hierarchical
structures, this system integrates both explicit and implicit rela-
tionships into a comprehensive knowledge graph architecture,
enabling sophisticated multi-hop question answering.
4. Technical Approach
This section presents the proposed system architecture and
technical approach for multi-hop QA, including the construc-
tion of the dual graphs and the design of the hybrid retrieval
mechanism.
4.1. System Overview
This paper introduces BifrostRAG, a RAG-integrated system
that enables LLMs to effectively reason over safety regulation
documents characterized by semantic and structural complex-
ity. BifrostRAG is built on adual knowledge graph archi-
tecture(Figure 2a), which integrates two complementary com-
ponents: the Entity Network Graph (ENG) and the Document
Navigator Graph (DNG). The ENG captures semantic relation-
ships between regulatory entities at the word and phrase level.
Following preprocessing by the Document Scraper (Section
4.2.1), an ENG Generator (Section 4.2.2) constructs this graph
by first extracting entities from regulatory text. An Incremental
Entities Refiner (Section 4.2.3) then consolidates semantically
similar entities to reduce redundancy before the ENG Generator
proceeds to extract relational triples (head entity–relation–tail
entity). The resulting linguistic elements are encoded using an
embedding model and stored in a vector database for semantic
retrieval. The second graph DNG models structural relation-
ships at the document level. A Document Navigator (Section
4.2.4) builds this graph using section identifiers as nodes and es-
tablishing edges based on hierarchical relationships and cross-
references within the regulations. The resulting graph structure
is stored in a graph database for structural traversal across doc-
ument sections. In this first phase, LLM agents are employed
to extract and validate the structural and semantic relationships
from raw regulatory text and organize them into the DNG and
ENG. This reflects LLM-enhanced knowledge graph construc-
tion.
These complementary graphs power BifrostRAG’shybrid
retrieval mechanism(Figure 2b), which employs a two-stage
retrieval process for QA. First, user questions are decomposed
into entities and triples, then semantically matched against the
ENG. This process identifies semantically relevant sections that
share terminology and scope of application through entity and
triple matching. Second, section IDs identified from the ENG
become entry points for traversing the DNG, exploring par-
ent sections for context, child sections for detail, and sibling
sections for lateral relevance. The system ranks navigation
paths and selects the most pertinent sections to generate the fi-
nal grounded response. In this second phase, the constructed
graphs serve as a structured external knowledge base to ground
the LLM’s reasoning, enabling it to generate precise, factual an-
swers while mitigating hallucination. This reflects knowledge
graph-enhanced LLM reasoning.
BifrostRAG demonstrates bidirectional integration between
LLMs and knowledge graphs: LLMs facilitate entity extrac-
tion, graph construction, and question decomposition, while the
knowledge graphs ground and contextualize LLM responses. In
the remainder of this section, the dual knowledge graph gener-
ation process and hybrid retrieval mechanism are introduced in
detail.
Raw Documents 
Document 
Scraper
User Query
Query Entities vQuery Relations
Relevant Section IDs
All Relevant Sections
Summative 
Answer
Semantic 
Similarity Search
Relevant 
Reference Search
DNG
Document 
Navigator
ENG
iEntities 
Refiner
ENG 
Generator
(a) Dual Knowledge Graph 
Architecture
(b) Hybrid Retrieval Mechanism
Query Triples
Figure 2: BifrostRAG Framework
4.2. Dual Knowledge Graph Generation
The dual knowledge graph generation process is enabled by
four modules: (1) Document Scraper for scraping and prepro-
cessing raw regulatory text into a formatted dataset; (2) ENG
Generator for ENG construction through entity and relationship
extraction, including the identification of implicit links formed
through shared terminology and logical necessity; (3) iEntities
Refiner for similar entity consolidation; and (4) Document Nav-
igator for DNG construction through hierarchical relationships
and cross-references capture.
4.2.1. Documents Scraper
Authoritative documents such as OSHA standards are typ-
ically published in two formats: web-based and PDF. To con-
vert these into an unencrypted and more processable format, the
Document Scraper module employs two complementary meth-
ods, web scraping and PDF extraction. These methods can be
6

[[page 7]]
Table 3: Research Status of Information Retrieval in Construction Documents
Work Retrieval mechanism
Retrievable information types
Cross-
reference
Hierarchical
structure
Shared terminology Relevant scope
Ren & Zhang
(2021) [19]
Rule-based information
extraction
Not supported Not supported Partially supported by
gazetteers and the CPDC
ontology
Not supported
Wang &
El-Gohary
(2023) [21]
Limited to KG construction;
retrieval not addressed.
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Wang et al.
(2024) [8]
Limited to KG construction;
retrieval not addressed.
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Lee et al.
(2024) [13]
KG-based Cypher query
match
Not supported Not supported Exact matching on surface
forms; no synonyms or
morphological changes
Partially supported
by title and
keyword filtering
Chen et al.
(2024) [14]
Limited to KG construction;
retrieval not addressed.
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Wu et al.
(2025) [15]
Vector-based semantic
similarity
Not supported Partially
supported by
grouping
bottom-level
nodes
Supported by semantic
embedding
Not supported
Meyer et al.
(2024) [44]
KG-based SPARQL pattern
match
Not supported Not supported Exact matching on surface
forms; no synonyms or
morphological changes
Not supported
Francis et al.
(2018) [49]
KG-based Cypher query
match
Not supported Not supported Exact matching on surface
forms; no synonyms or
morphological changes
Not supported
Wan et al.
(2025) [46]
Vector-based semantic
similarity
Not supported Not supported Supported by semantic
embedding
Partially supported
by schema
constraints
used either independently or in combination to accurately com-
pile the content of such documents.
Web scraping is the primary method for extracting content
from web-based documents [13]. This involves sending an
HTTP request with predefined headers to a specified list of
URLs [15]. These requests retrieve the HTML source code of
each webpage. The retrieved content is parsed using the Beau-
tiful Soup library [12]. This allows for the extraction of con-
tent bodies and their section numbers, which are then stored in
a structured JSON format. To support multimodal learning in
the future, the JSON structure also retains additional metadata,
such as URLs and headings as references to images and tables.
PDF extraction distills plaintext layer from the PDF. The
PDF files are first reframed by trimming the vertical and hor-
izontal margins to remove headers, footers, and peripheral dec-
orations such as logos, watermarks, and repetitive headlines.
Some non-plaintext noises remained within the new page area
especially images and tables are further removed using the
PyMuPDF library. The remaining text fragments are concate-
nated into successive sentences.
When both web-based and PDF versions are available (e.g.,
OSHA standards), the two approaches can be used in combi-
nation to enhance the accuracy of the scraped content. Using
Python built-in module difflib, a literal comparison is performed
between the outputs of the web-scraped and PDF-extracted con-
tents to ensure it is free from typographical errors or omissions.
If the content from both sources aligns well, the verified data is
stored in a structured SQL database for subsequent use. Oth-
erwise, the discrepancies are manually reviewed, and only the
correct version is retained.
4.2.2. ENG Generator
The ENG Generator serves as the core component of the pro-
posed pipeline. An agentic workflow with multiple LLM agents
collaborating to construct a knowledge graph is designed, in-
cluding content pruning agent, entity extraction agent, relation-
ship extraction, and ENG creation. Each agent is guided by
a predefined system prompt that defines its role and general
behavior, along with a flexible user prompt that adapts to the
content of various text chunks (see the following details). This
setup enables the agents to interact autonomously with data
sources and perform specialized tasks independently within the
system.
Content pruning:The content pruning agent is tasked with
simplifying textual content while carefully maintaining the sen-
tence grammatical structures. The user prompt specifies com-
prehensive guidelines that the LLM agent must strictly follow
during text processing. The agent is instructed to begin with a
thorough review of the entire article before segmenting it into
discrete paragraphs. Within each paragraph, the LLM simpli-
fies sentences by preserving only their core structures and re-
moving redundant or non-essential information, all while re-
taining the original meaning. Additionally, the agent is ex-
plicitly prohibited from substituting synonyms, thereby main-
7

[[page 8]]
Example: When the 200 pound test load specified in 
paragraph (b)(3) of this section is applied in a downward 
direction, the top edge of the guardrail shall not deflect 
to a height less than 39 inches above the 
walking/working level. (Section 1926.502(b)(4))
User prompt: Simplify the text to aid understanding and 
future knowledge graph extraction, adhering strictly to these 
instructions:
 Do not change the original meaning or use synonyms.
 Do not add new information.
 Retain consistent domain-specific terms and descriptions.
 Preserve all internal citations and cross-references.
 Present each simplified sentence on a new line in JSON 
format.
System prompt: Now you are a professional knowledge 
graph generator. You will be provided with a paragraph from 
the OSHA construction safety regulations.
JSON output 
formatting 
template
Input
Output
{ "section": "1926.502(b)(4)",
"simplified_text": "When the 200 pound test load in 
paragraph (b)(3) is applied in a downward direction, 
the top edge of the guardrail shall not deflect below 
39 inches above the walking/working level." }
Figure 3: Prompt Outline of Content Pruning
taining consistent terminology across the entire document. It
must also retain all section IDs mentioned within the text to en-
sure accurate linkage with the Document Navigator Graph de-
scribed in Section 4.2.4 For text fragments that are not complete
sentences–typically section headings–the model is instructed to
output the original text without modification. The final output
must conform precisely to a predefined JSON format. An out-
line of the prompts is illustrated in Figure 3.
Entity Extraction:The entity extraction agent integrates the
simplified text produced by the content pruning agent into the
user prompt as input. Then it requests LLM to extract entities
in accordance with Wikipedia definitions, assigning represen-
tative labels based on prior knowledge. In addition to entity
identification and labeling, the agent also extracts all referenced
section IDs present in the input test, which is mandated through
the prompt outlined in Figure 4c. This supports the construction
of the knowledge graph in the Document Navigator Graph.
In order to achieve comprehensive yet precise entity extrac-
tion (i.e., captures all relevant entities while avoiding inclusion
of irrelevant terms or phrases), the prompt design underwent
iterative refinement during preliminary experiments. Adjust-
ments were made to better align the agent’s outputs with the
manually annotated reference results. Through multiple rounds
of testing and evaluation, several critical prompts were identi-
fied (Figure 4a), with an example of their corresponding impact
on model performance shown in Figure 4b.
Following the initial entity extraction, a post-extraction vali-
dation process (Figure 4d) is introduced to scrutinize the quality
of the extracted entities. Both the full original text and the pre-
viously extracted entities are integrated into the user prompt as
the input. The prompts for this validation process are designed
to detect and correct extraction errors, eliminating entities that
deviate from the defined criteria and identifying any missing
entities or labels. The objective of this step is to improve the
overall accuracy and completeness of the resulting knowledge
graph. An additional consideration is that although some words
appear in nominal form, they do not function as nouns in the
sentence. Hence, the agent must carefully interpret context and
output only those entities that act as nouns within their specific
linguistic context.
Relationship Extraction:Following entity extraction, the
semantic relationships among the identified entities are estab-
lished, using another LLM agent (Figure 5a). A critical re-
quirement in this process is that both the head and tail nodes
must correspond strictly to previously identified entities. Fur-
thermore, the relationship must be explicitly present in the
text between those two entities. This constraint is essential to
avoid the generation of fabricated relationships and to ensure
all relationships are authentic (i.e., connect actual, verified enti-
ties). To maintain consistency and minimize discrepancies due
to spelling or formatting differences, all extracted relationship
phrases are standardized using snake_case formatting.
Similar to entity extraction, a series of post-extraction val-
idation is designed to rigorously assess the quality of the ex-
tracted relationships (Figure 5b). These inspections involve
meticulous verification steps to confirm that each entity in the
extracted triples matches the validated entities from the earlier
step and that the relationship accurately reflects the grammati-
cal and semantic structure of the original text, thereby ensuring
the knowledge graph’s integrity. Once both entities and rela-
tionships are thoroughly validated, complete triples (head en-
tity, relationship, tail entity) are formulated and structured in a
specified JSON format for input into the Neo4j Graph DBMS
(Figure 5c).
The relationship extracts agent interfaces directly with the
Neo4j Graph DBMS using a driver object authenticated via
secure tokens to create the ENG. Utilizing Cypher query lan-
guage, the system first creates nodes for each entity instance,
assigning attributes including entity names, labels, global iden-
tifiers, and associated source section identifiers. Subsequently,
additional Cypher commands are executed to establish relation-
ships between these nodes, thereby embedding both the entities
and their interconnections into Neo4j database structure.
4.2.3. Incremental Entities Refiner (iEntities Refiner)
To enhance the refinement process of the extracted entities,
an iEntities Refiner is introduced, which systematically lemma-
tizes and consolidates entities exhibiting high semantic similar-
ity. The process begins with lemmatizing nouns within each
entity, converting them into more generalized forms, known as
lemmas. Specifically, this step involves: 1) transforming plural
nouns into their singular forms; 2) removing naming conven-
tions, such as CamelCase (e.g., convert “ExcavationWork” to
“excavation work”); and 3) standardizing the spelling to low-
ercase (except for proper nouns). Each lemmatized entity is
then matched against existing entries in the local schema, which
maintains a structured and up-to-date record of entities and re-
lationships currently existing within the graph database. If a
8

[[page 9]]
Simplified text:
When the 200 pound test load in paragraph (b)(3) is applied 
in a downward direction the top edge of the guardrail shall 
not deflect below 39 inches above the walking/working 
level.
200 pound test load: LadRequirement,   
downward direction: Direction,
top edge of the guardrail: GuardrailComponent,
39 inches: Height
walking level: Height
working level": Height
Extracted entity: downward direction, top 
edge of the guardrail, walking/working level, 
200 pound test load, 39 inches
Extracted entity: downward direction, top 
edge of the guardrail, 200 pound test load, 
39 inches, walking level, working level
Read through the original text to double 
check whether all entities have been 
correctly extracted.
1
Add missing entities.
Recheck the extracted entities to ensure 
that each functions as a noun or noun 
phrase within the context of the text.
(c) Cross reference identification 
prompt outline and example
Identify any referenced sections within 
this paragraph and return their full 
section IDs
1
These references may be complete (e.g., 
as required by section 1926.651(c)(2)) or 
partial (e.g., as specified in paragraph 
(j)(2) of this section).
A full section ID typically includes:
- The main section number (e.g., 1926)"
- The subsection number (e.g., 651)"
- Any additional levels of specification 
(e.g., (c)(2))"
Your task is extracting all entities in the 
provided text, the definition of entity 
refers to Wikipedia.
1
Data should also be included as entity.
Understand the context and merge all 
entities with the same or close meaning.
4
Assign a label to each entity, which 
should be a brief category or 
classification that describes the type of 
entity. 
5
5
4
Extracted entity: downward direction, top 
edge of the guardrail, walking/working level, 
200 pound test load, 39 inches, walking level, 
working level
3
2
Extracted entity: downward direction, top 
edge of the guardrail, walking/working level
1
1926.502(b)(3)
(b) Entity extraction process example
3
2
3
2
User prompt: 
2
System prompt: 
Now you are a professional knowledge graph 
generator. You will be provided with a paragraph 
from the OSHA construction safety regulations.
(a) Entity extraction prompt outline
Identification 
example
(d) Post-extraction validation
Entity 
labeling
For entities connected by commas, 
slash, or logical words, separate them 
into distinct entities and combine the 
common term with each option.
3
Entity Extraction User Prompt 
Iterative Refinement
Figure 4: Brief Prompt of Entity Extraction
match is found, the refiner updates the local schema by append-
ing the corresponding section identifier to the matched entity
property. Otherwise, the process advances to the next step.
To further reduce duplication and improve entity matching
accuracy, vector embeddings are incorporated. As shown in
Figure 6a, both the newly extracted entity stringsE new and the
relation stringsR new are transformed into vector representations
via the embedding engine. The relation vectors are directly
collected into the local schema, whereas for each new entity
enew, the iEntities Refiner performs an iterative cosine similar-
ity computation between its embedding and the set of all exist-
ing entity embeddingsEmaintained in the local schema, lete k
denote an arbitrary entity belongs toE. Assume that there are
Nentities in local schema,
∀e k∈E,cosθ k = enew·e k
∥enew∥∥e k∥,k=1,...,N.(1)
As presented in Figure 6b, if the cosine similarity exceeds a
predefined thresholdτ, the new entity is merged into the most
similar existing entity. This merging involves appending the
section ID to the attribute of the existing entity. Otherwise, the
new entity is added to the local schema as a distinct entry, com-
plete with a unique label, element identifier, and source section
attributes.
As illustrated in Figure 6c, each new entity refined by the
iEntities Refiner is stored in the local schema, either as a head
entityhor a tail entityt. Thus,
E=
n
ha∈R d|a=1,...,p
o
∪
n
tb∈R d|b=1,...,q
o
,wherep+q=N.
(2)
Finally, the embeddings for triples are created. See Figure 6c.
Embeddings representing the head entityh 1, relationr 1, and
tail entityt 1 are concatenated horizontally to create the triple
embeddingsv 1:
v1 =[h 1,r 1,t 1],v 1∈R 1×3d.(3)
These embeddings are exported from Neo4j and stored
in a SQLite database to facilitate the downstream question-
answering systems.
4.2.4. Documents Navigator Graph
The Document Navigator Graph (DNG) is designed to effi-
ciently locate and retrieve specific items from OSHA standards
by indexing section IDs within a graph database. This graph
captures two explicit types of regulatory relationships, as de-
tailed in Section 2.2: (1) Cross-reference relationships linking
different provisions, and (2) Parent-child hierarchical structures
aligning with OSHA’s standard naming and numbering conven-
tions. The relationships are predefined (e.g., has, refers_to)
As illustrated in Figure 7, upon extraction by the Document
Scraper, parent-child relationships are directly stored in the
Neo4j Graph DBMS using the relationship label ‘has’. Con-
versely, identifying cross-reference relationships is integrated
with the entity extraction process described in Entity Extrac-
tion. During this process, the LLM (Figure 5) not only extracts
entities but also identifies all referenced provisions within the
input text. Given the variability in textual expressions of these
references, the prompt for the LLM includes in-context few-
shot instructions with a comprehensive set of reference patterns
to ensure accurate extraction. To further ensure consistency,
a rule-based post-extraction validation (Figure 5) process en-
9

[[page 10]]
System prompt: 
Now you are a professional knowledge 
graph generator. You will be provided 
with a paragraph from the OSHA 
construction safety regulations.
Extract all relations between the 
previously defined entities {} from 
the entire text.
1
Only use previously defined entities: 
{}. Do not make any change to the 
previously defined entities name.
2
When describing the relation, use 
the original phrasing from the text as 
much as possible.
3
Simplified text:
When the 200 pound test load in paragraph (b)(3) is 
applied in  a downward direction, the top edge of the 
guardrail shall not deflect below 39 inches above the 
walking/working level.
Input
Entity_relation_triples:
{"triple": {​
    "relation": "relation",​
    "source": "source_entity",​
    "target": "target_entity"}}​
Post-extraction validation
Read through the text one 
sentence at a time, checking 
whether all relation have been 
correctly extracted .
1
If any relations are missing, add 
the missing ones in the current 
JSON.
2
if any are not suitable to be 
considered as a relation, please 
remove them from the current 
JSON. 
3
top edge of the 
guardrail
39 inches
walking level
working level
200 pound test load
downward 
direction
is_applied_in
shall_not_deflect_below
is_applied_to
above
above
Stored in 
Graph Database
(a)
(c)
(b)
Figure 5: Brief Prompt of Relationship Extraction
sures that every section ID conforms to the official CFR format
and that all relationships adhere to the predefined schema (e.g.,
has, refers_to). This “schema-locked” approach prevents hal-
lucinated nodes or relations. These identified relationships are
subsequently recorded in the Neo4j Graph DBMS. This multi-
layered indexing strategy enables efficient data retrieval, en-
hancing the effectiveness of subsequent graph traversal queries
and citation discovery tasks.
4.3. Hybrid Retrieval Mechanism
To present users with accurate, concise, and contextually ap-
propriate information, a hybrid retrieval mechanism augmented
with dual knowledge graphs is proposed to enable an incorpo-
rated QA system. In this mechanism, an LLM agent is em-
ployed to extract major entities and triples from user queries,
employing the same prompt configurations as the entity extrac-
tion agent and relationship extraction agent (Section 4.2.2), re-
spectively. In addition, a swapping mechanism is introduced to
increase the system’s matching robustness to the diverse voice
or sentence structure of user queries. For example, the equiv-
alent semantic meaning expressed in the active voice (e.g., “A
competent person can design the ramp.”) or in the passive voice
(e.g., “The ramp can be designed by a competent person.”) may
produce subject-object inversions in triples. To address this, the
system generates symmetric triples by swapping the source and
target entities.
Both entities and triples extracted from the user query are
mapped to the most relevant elements in the ENG by comput-
ing similarity scores. The process begins by calculating cosine
similarity between target entities and those stored in the local
schema. Top five entities with the similarity score greater than
0.5 are retrieved, and their section IDs are collected into a can-
didate set. These sections capture provisions with implicit con-
nections to each other and the query due to shared terminology
(entity). Due to prior entity merging by the iEntities Refiner,
one entity may be associated with multiple section IDs, poten-
tially leading to an overly broad set of relevant sections. To
narrow this down, a second round of cosine similarity compari-
son was conducted on triples. Similarly, the top five triples with
the highest similarity scores (greater than 0.5) are selected, and
their corresponding section IDs are consolidated into another
candidate set. This parallel retrieval refines entity similarity
results because shared terminology often consists of common
terms appearing across multiple provisions, whereas triples fo-
cus the search more precisely. Additionally, triple similarity
search identifies related regulatory scope: a triple such as (“ex-
cavation,” “subject_to,” “heavy rain”) may surface complemen-
tary safety provisions governing adverse weather conditions.
Only the intersection of two candidate sets would be consid-
ered, ensuring highly relevant provisions with implicit relation-
ships are included.
The selected section IDs are crucial, as the section texts
retrieved according to them will serve as entry points for multi-
hop indexing. Each retrieved section is examined to determine
whether it references other sections. All the connected sections
are added to the pool and iteratively examined until exhausted.
This process is powered by the established DNG, using cypher
queriesMATCH (a)-[:refers_to]->(b) WHERE a.name
= $section_name RETURN b.name AS nameto identify
connections. All matched sections are included as candidate
inputs to the LLM agent, and the process continues until all
relevant sections are processed.
Finally, an LLM agent processes all retrieved texts by selec-
tively retaining only those segments that are directly relevant to
the user’s query, and generate a coherent and focused summary
response. To ensure both the relevance and accuracy of the an-
swer, the model is instructed to first review all cited sources and
filter out any references deemed irrelevant or unhelpful. It then
synthesizes a comprehensive response using only the pertinent
references, maintaining clarity, logical structure, and alignment
with the original question. Throughout this process, the original
10

[[page 11]]
OpenAI 
Embedding 
Engine
...
...
...
v ...
⊕
Vector 
concatenation
Local schema
Compute cosine similarity 
with every entity in local schema
OSHA
Add new entity to 
local schema
NO YES
v
 ...
...
Entity vector
Relation vector
Triple vector
Update entity property of 
with source section of 
Entity name
Label
Element ID
Source section
IF
Entity name
Label
Element ID
Source section
Create Update
n
 n
(a)
(c)
(b)
Figure 6: Embedding-Based Incremental Entity Refinement
Figure 7: Construction of Document Navigator Graph
texts and their citations are preserved to support transparency
and facilitate traceability.
5. QA Implementation
This section presents the implementation of the proposed
system, in which the constructed graphs and the LLM are in-
tegrated into an end-to-end pipeline for multi-hop QA.
5.1. Interface of QA System
Figure 8 presents the user interface of the QA system, which
comprises a registration bar, a search box, and a footer con-
taining contact information. Users enter their OSHA-related
queries in the search box and click the “Search” button, after
which they are redirected to a results page. An example of this
page is shown in Figure 9. Following the summary, the system
provides references that include the original regulation text, the
corresponding section IDs, and direct links to these materials.
Figure 8: Designed Interface of the OSHA Regulation QA System
5.2. Case Study
To illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, a
representative case study has been conducted Figure 10. Con-
sider the user query: “How to protect excavation work from
rainstorm hazard?” This query contains two key entities, “exca-
vation work” and “rainstorm hazard,” connected by the relation
“protect_from,” together forming a complete semantic triple.
In the local entity similarity analysis, four entities exhib-
ited the highest semantic similarity to “excavation work”:
(1) “excavation work” (similarity=1.000), (2) “excavation”
(0.8977), (3) “excavation activity” (0.8977), and (4) “exca-
vation operation” (0.8859). Similarly, the five most sim-
ilar entities to “rainstorm hazard” were identified as: (1)
“rainstorm” (0.7506), (2) “water-related hazard” (0.6626), (3)
“heavy rain” (0.6139), (4) “hazardous condition” (0.5742), and
11

[[page 12]]
Figure 9: Search Result for a Sample User Query
(5) “surface water” (0.5731). Based on these entity pairs,
several relevant triples were retrieved from the Entity Net-
work Graph, including: (1) (“excavation”, “subject_to”, “heavy
rain”) (similarity=0.6343), (2) (“excavation work”, “inter-
rupt_drainage_of”, “surface water”) (0.6145), and (3) (“ex-
cavation work”, “might_develop_during”, “hazardous condi-
tion”) (0.5835).
Next, the Entity Network Graph was queried to determine
the source sections associated with each of these entities and
triples. By intersecting the corresponding section sets, a re-
fined candidate set of sections was obtained. To ensure com-
prehensiveness, each section in the candidate set was further
examined using the Document Navigator Graph to check for
cross-references or child provisions. For instance, the query
led directly to Sections 1926.651(h)(3) and 1926.651(k)(1).
However, Section 1926.651(h)(3) explicitly references Sections
1926.651(h)(1) and 1926.651(h)(2), which collectively form a
complete regulatory chain. As such, all three sections were in-
cluded for further processing. This recursive exploration con-
tinues until all potentially relevant provisions are identified.
Finally, the full text of all retrieved provisions, along with
their source locations, is passed to the GPT model. The model
then filters out irrelevant content and generates a summative
answer that directly addresses the original user query.
6. Experiment
This section describes the experimental setup used to eval-
uate the proposed system, in which the dataset, baselines, and
evaluation metrics are specified.
6.1. Experiment Design
Using GPT-4o as the backbone of the LLM agents, Bifros-
tRAG was evaluated against three state-of-the-art solutions:
LLM-only (without RAG), vector-based RAG using OpenAI
embeddings, and graph-based RAG implemented with Neo4j.
GPT-4o without RAG was selected as the baseline to evalu-
ate the capabilities of a state-of-the-art LLM based solely on
its pre-trained knowledge, establishing a fundamental lower-
bound performance benchmark for the evaluation. Although
prior research has demonstrated GPT-4o’s proficiency in close-
ended, standardized safety assessments [50], its effectiveness
in open-ended questions—particularly those requiring inter-
pretation of complex safety regulations—remains underex-
plored. OpenAI’s vector-based RAG and Neo4j’s graph-based
RAG implementations were selected as they represent widely
adopted, cutting-edge solutions for building vector-based and
graph-based RAG systems, respectively. Also, they are off-
the-shelf applications accessible for researchers and practition-
ers, ensuring the evaluation results provide immediately prac-
tical insights for real-world applications. Within the domain
of graph-based RAG, Neo4j’s pipeline emerges as the most
functionally aligned baseline for the task. While alternative
solutions such as Microsoft’s GraphRAG are considered, it is
found that it builds a topic-based summary graph rather than
an explicit entity–relation knowledge graph; its nodes represent
thematic communities and summaries, and retrieval is orga-
nized around these topic clusters and their condensed descrip-
tions. Moreover, the proposed Bifrost RAG system builds upon
Neo4j’s open-source graph database infrastructure. This align-
ment was intentional, as it allowed for isolated and rigorous
assessment of the impact of the core contributions: the dual-
graph architecture and the specialized retrieval strategy, rather
than to disparities in backend technology.
Vector-based RAG was configured through OpenAI Play-
ground, a web-based developer platform that enables cus-
tomization of and interaction with OpenAI’s LLMs. The
platform automatically embedded uploaded documents into a
vector store using OpenAI’s default text-embedding-3-small
model, allowing LLMs to retrieve relevant content and inte-
grate it into responses. For the graph-based RAG implementa-
tion, documents were uploaded to Neo4j to construct a knowl-
edge graph. Neo4j automatically generates the knowledge
graph from uploaded documents by integrating LangChain
LLMGraphTransformer (version 0.4), which employed built-
in general-purpose prompts to guide the LLM in identifying
entities and their semantic relationships. The resulting knowl-
edge graph was stored in Neo4j’s platform. For QA, Neo4j uti-
lizes LangChain’s GraphCypherQAChain (version 0.4) to di-
rect LLMs to first generate Cypher queries and execute them
over the knowledge graph. The graph traversal process begins
by matching entities to determine the appropriate subgraph for
traversal. To ensure a fair comparison, GPT-4o-2024-08-06 was
used as both the extraction and QA agent across all configu-
rations. The model temperature was standardized at 0.2, and
the maximum token limit was set to 1,500. An exception was
Neo4j, where full alignment with these parameters was not fea-
12

[[page 13]]
Figure 10: Query Processing Pipeline of QA System
13

[[page 14]]
sible due to its built-in configuration constraints, which may
have influenced the generated outputs.
The validation study examined four subparts OSHA 1926,
as shown in Table 6. These subparts were chosen for three
reasons. First, they address fall protection—the leading cause
of construction fatalities—making them highly relevant to in-
dustry safety priorities. Second, these subparts exhibit the full
spectrum of complex structural relationships found in safety
regulations, creating an ideal testing environment for multi-
hop QA. For example, Subpart M (Fall Protection) establishes
horizontal regulations governing fall protection systems under
general conditions, while Subparts L (Scaffolds), P (Excava-
tions), and X (Stairways and Ladders) provide vertical regula-
tions with specialized fall requirements. Third, document sizes
of these subparts align with those typically used in similar stud-
ies [20, 21].
To systematically evaluate model performance, a set of 93
questions was designed. All questions in the dataset are, by
design, multi-hop. This was an intentional choice, as address-
ing complex, multi-hop reasoning is the core focus of this pa-
per. Since prior research shows that single-hop questions are
largely solved by existing methods, the evaluation focuses on
the challenging queries that are most representative of the prob-
lems faced by safety professionals.
The specific number of questions for each subpart is indi-
cated in Table 4. Table 5 presents the distribution of multi-hop
mechanisms in the set of questions. Table 6 shows the distri-
bution of the relationship types in the set of questions. Col-
lectively, the questions draw relatively evenly from multiple
regulatory subparts, reflecting various safety regulatory topics.
Questions cover diverse relationship types manifested through
all four mechanisms, aligning with the real-world reasoning
patterns required in regulatory compliance tasks and providing
a robust test of RAG performance on multi-hop questions.
Table 4: Selected OSHA Subparts
Subpart Topic Number
1926 Subpart L Scaffolds (1926.451, 1926.452, 1926.453,
1926.454)
30
1926 Subpart M Fall Protection (1926.500, 1926.501,
1926.502, 1926.503)
27
1926 Subpart P Excavations (1926.651, 1926.652) 17
1926 Subpart X Stairways and Ladders (1926.1051,
1926.1052, 1926.1053)
19
Total 93
2https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/1996-12-12
3https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2002-04-16
4https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2002-10-23
5https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2010-03-03
6https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2002-08-06-0
7https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2004-09-14
8https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2005-04-05
9https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2003-12-22-1
10https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2004-11-17-0
11https://osha.oregon.gov/OSHARules/interps/im-94-24.pdf
12https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/1992-03-23
13https://www.osha.gov/laws-regs/standardinterpretations/2000-08-10-0
Table 5: Distribution of Multi-hop Mechanisms in the Question Set
Multi-hop Type Mechanism Number Percentage
Implicit Multi-hop Cross-reference 21 22.58%
Hierarchical structure 31 33.33%
Explicit Multi-hop Shared terminology 26 27.96%
Relevant scop 31 33.33%
Note: The percentages sum to more than 100% since some complex questions may
involve multiple mechanisms simultaneously.
Table 6: Distribution of Relationship Types in the Question Set
Relationship Type Number Percentage
Exception 17 18.28%
Conditional 29 31.18%
Complementary 23 24.73%
Cross-Cutting 28 30.11%
Note: The percentages sum to more than 100% as some questions involve more than one
type of relationship.
Ten open-ended questions were first drawn from authori-
tative OSHA resources, each accompanied by answers citing
multiple sections of OSHA 1926. Using these questions as
templates, the remaining 83 questions were developed in col-
laboration with a construction safety expert. The expert is an
OSHA-authorized trainer and a Certified Safety Professional
(CSP) with over eight years of industry experience. As each
question was formulated, all relevant section IDs were anno-
tated to establish a ground-truth reference. To ensure accuracy,
a two-step cross-check was performed within the research team.
First, the annotated ground-truth section IDs were verified for
correctness. Second, additional sections were systematically
reviewed to identify any potentially overlooked relevant refer-
ences. Through expert deliberation and iterative refinement, a
set of predefined ground-truth answers was established for per-
formance evaluation.
6.2. Evaluation Metrics
In the experiment, each model was instructed to generate an-
swers with corresponding reference section IDs. Model perfor-
mance in answering multi-hop QA was evaluated using three
objective metrics: (1) Precision rate: The proportion of re-
trieved section IDs that are correct; (2) Recall rate: the pro-
portion of correct section IDs that were successfully retrieved;
and (3) F1 score: the harmonic mean of precision and recall,
representing a balanced measure of retrieval accuracy. Since all
tested models use the GPT-4o model, the primary differentia-
tor lies in each RAG system’s information retrieval capability.
When provided with accurate references, GPT-4o consistently
provided accurate written answers. This evaluation framework
therefore focuses on capturing whether systems can compre-
hensively identify relevant provisions without introducing irrel-
evant information that could mislead compliance assessments.
Precision= |Correct S ections in Answer|
|Total S ections in Answer| (4)
14

[[page 15]]
Recall= |Correct S ections in Answer|
|Total Required S ections| (5)
F1=2· Recall·Precision
Recall+Precision (6)
7. Experimental Results
This section reports the experimental results and perfor-
mance analyses, including the validation of both the dual-graph
construction pipeline and the QA outcomes. The proposed sys-
tem is further examined through an ablation study to observe
the system’s behavior under different settings.
7.1. Dual Knowledge Graph Construction
Validation:To evaluate the automated knowledge-graph
construction pipeline, experiments were conducted on OSHA
1926 Subparts L, M, P, and X. For each subpart, 20 provisions
were randomly sampled. Domain experts created gold-standard
annotations under a unified extraction schema. Using the same
instructions and schema, the automated system (GPT-4o) pro-
duced machine annotations. For each subpart, precision, re-
call, and F1 were computed for entity extraction and triple cre-
ation. Results are reported in Table 7 and Table 8. Precision,
recall, and F1 scores were micro-averaged within each subpart
and macro-averaged across subparts. As expected, triple cre-
ation proved marginally more challenging than entity extrac-
tion, yielding on average 1.5–2.8 percentage points lower pre-
cision, 1.2–3.6 points lower recall, and 1.1–3.1 points lower
F1. This performance gap is anticipated, as triple generation
is inherently dependent on the preceding accuracy of entity ex-
traction.
To assess the stability and reliability of the machine anno-
tation pipeline, 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were computed
for precision, recall, and F1 across all subparts. For both en-
tity extraction and triple creation tasks, the 95% CI widths re-
mained within 4 percentage points for all metrics. Specifically,
the maximum CI width was 3.79% for triple-level precision,
whereas the minimum was 3.17% for entity-level recall.
These tight 95% CIs, together with the high absolute scores
(all exceeding 90%), suggest that the machine annotation
framework achieves statistically robust and reliable perfor-
mance. This level of stability supports its applicability to au-
tomated information extraction for knowledge graph construc-
tion.
Graph Database:After validating the machine annotation
pipeline, it was applied to large-scale knowledge graph con-
struction across the complete OSHA 1926 Subparts L, M, P,
and X. This implementation resulted in two knowledge graphs:
the Document Navigator Graph and the Entity Network Graph.
The Document Navigator Graph is a hierarchical structure or-
ganizing all 991 section indexes (represented as blue nodes in
Figure 11), and 2025 regulatory relationships. It uses two re-
lationship types to connect sections: parent-child, and cross-
reference. This knowledge graph captures relationships explic-
itly embedded in the regulation for retrieval during QA. The
Entity Network Graph operates at the phrase level, extracting
entities, such as “falling objects” and “barricade,” and defin-
ing their interrelationships. The knowledge graph constructed
in Neo4j consists of 3,442 nodes and 6,221 relationships, as
shown in Figure 11. This network captures implicit connections
between sections, even across subparts, that are not explicitly
stated through parent-child, or cross-reference relationships but
are relevant due to shared entities and overlapping scopes. The
Document Navigator Graph and the Entity Network Graph are
linked through the section number, which serves as a shared
property of nodes in both graphs.
/gid00187/gid00028/gid00188/gid00001/gid00016/gid00049/gid00032/gid00045/gid00049/gid00036/gid00032/gid00050/gid00001/gid00042/gid00033/gid00001/gid00006/gid00041/gid00047/gid00036/gid00047/gid00052/gid00001/gid00015/gid00032/gid00047/gid00050/gid00042/gid00045/gid00038/gid00001/gid00008/gid00045/gid00028/gid00043/gid00035
/gid00187/gid00030/gid00188/gid00001/gid00016/gid00049/gid00032/gid00045/gid00049/gid00036/gid00032/gid00050/gid00001/gid00042/gid00033/gid00001/gid00005/gid00042/gid00030/gid00048/gid00040/gid00032/gid00041/gid00047/gid00001/gid00015/gid00028/gid00049/gid00036/gid00034/gid00028/gid00047/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00008/gid00045/gid00028/gid00043/gid00035/gid00001
/gid00187/gid00029/gid00188/gid00001/gid00005/gid00032/gid00047/gid00028/gid00036/gid00039/gid00001/gid00042/gid00033/gid00001/gid00020/gid00028/gid00040/gid00043/gid00039/gid00032/gid00001/gid00006/gid00041/gid00047/gid00036/gid00047/gid00052/gid00001
/gid00187/gid00031/gid00188/gid00001/gid00005/gid00032/gid00047/gid00028/gid00036/gid00039/gid00001/gid00042/gid00033/gid00001/gid00020/gid00028/gid00040/gid00043/gid00039/gid00032/gid00001/gid00020/gid00032/gid00030/gid00047/gid00036/gid00042/gid00041
Figure 11: Visualization of the Generated Dual Knowledge Graphs in Neo4j
7.2. QA System Performance Comparison
To demonstrate functionality and validate performance of
proposed QA system, the same question set was run on Bifros-
tRAG and three comparative models. Table 9 presents the
descriptive statistics for precision, recall rates, and F1 score,
along with their standard deviations, across four models for
each subpart and overall performance. The results indicate that
BifrostRAG outperforms vector-based RAG, Neo4j, and a naive
implementation of GPT-4o. This improvement is confirmed
through statistical analysis. The bootstrap confidence intervals
in Table 10 indicate that the overall performance estimates are
already quite stable, with the 95% CIs for BifrostRAG’s macro-
averaged precision, recall, and F1 all lying within±5%. Given
the non-normality of the data, the Friedman non-parametric
ANOV A test is employed, followed by post-hoc pairwise anal-
ysis with Bonferroni corrections. The results are shown in
Table 11 and Table 12. In addition to p-values, adjusted p-
values are reported to mitigate the risk of Type I errors resulting
from multiple comparisons. Figure 12 illustrates the perfor-
mance improvements of the three tested RAG solutions com-
pared to the baseline approach (GPT-4o without RAG) across
four OSHA subparts.
BifrostRAG achieves an overall precision of 92.8% and an
overall recall of 85.5%, surpassing vector-based RAG (OpenAI
Playground) (precision=91.1%, recall=69.5%) and signifi-
cantly outperforming general-purpose knowledge graph-based
RAG (Neo4j) (precision=71.4%, recall=50.8%). Post-hoc
analysis reveals that the recall improvement over vector-based
15

[[page 16]]
Table 7: Performance of Machine Annotated Entity Across Subparts
Subpart Number of Provisions Precision Recall F1 Score
1926 Subpart L 20 94.07% 92.30% 92.49%
1926 Subpart M 20 95.83% 94.79% 95.19%
1926 Subpart P 20 94.69% 92.16% 93.08%
1926 Subpart X 20 95.37% 93.52% 94.36%
Macro Avg. 80 94.99% 93.19% 93.78%
Table 8: Performance of Machine Annotated Triple Across Subparts
Subpart Number of provisions Precision Recall F1 Score
1926 Subpart L 20 92.60% 91.08% 91.38%
1926 Subpart M 20 93.75% 91.15% 92.07%
1926 Subpart P 20 92.29% 90.40% 90.53%
1926 Subpart X 20 92.57% 90.99% 91.69%
Macro Avg. 80 92.80% 90.91% 91.42%
BifrostRAG Vector RAG Graph RAG
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8Score
Subpart L
0.599
0.421
0.542
0.601
0.331
0.467
0.318
-0.050
0.128
Precision
Recall
F1
BifrostRAG Vector RAG Graph RAG
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8Score
Subpart M
0.711
0.358
0.548
0.634
0.119
0.343
0.520
0.118
0.324
Precision
Recall
F1
BifrostRAG Vector RAG Graph RAG
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8Score
Subpart P
0.636
0.416
0.569
0.695
0.289
0.515
0.594
0.164
0.378
Precision
Recall
F1
BifrostRAG Vector RAG Graph RAG
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8Score
Subpart X
0.752
0.648
0.706 0.725
0.461
0.559
0.462
0.261
0.340
Precision
Recall
F1
Figure 12: Performance Comparison Across OSHA Subparts
RAG is statistically significant (p=0.002**, adjustedp=
0.007**), while the increase in precision (+1.6%) is marginal
and not statistically significant. Compared to Neo4j, the pro-
posed method demonstrates a 21.4% improvement in precision
and a 34.7% increase in recall, with post-hoc pairwise com-
parisons confirming both differences as statistically significant.
In terms of F1-score results, BifrostRAG achieved the high-
est score of 87.3% (SD=0.257), markedly outperforming the
vector-based RAG (75.0%, SD=0.262) and graph-based RAG
(56.5%, SD=0.356). The subsequent Friedman test and post-
hoc analysis further substantiated these differences, revealing
that the F1-score distinctions between BifrostRAG and both
comparison models were statistically significant (adjusted sig.
<0.001).
Furthermore, empirical results suggest that BifrostRAG
(SDP=0.240; SDR=0.282) and vector-based RAG (SDP=
0.236; SDR=0.311) exhibit comparable stability across multi-
ple subparts, whereas graph-based RAG (SDP=0.407; SDR=
0.363) shows greater performance fluctuations. Notably, GPT-
4o without RAG performs the worst, achieving only 25.8% pre-
cision and 40.7% recall. When handling multi-hop questions
and generating responses with citations, GPT-4o without RAG
exhibits significant hallucination issues, including fabricating
section IDs, providing incomplete content, and, more concern-
ingly, generating misinformation. Another observation emerges
from Figure 12. While BifrostRAG, OpenAI Playground, and
Neo4j generally improve upon the GPT-4o baseline across all
four subparts, Neo4j unexpectedly exhibits a decline in recall
(0.050) relative to the GPT-4o baseline within subpart L.
7.3. Error Analysis
The error analysis examines failure patterns across graph-
based RAG (Neo4j), vector-based RAG (OpenAI Playground),
and BifrostRAG, focusing on multi-hop questions where one
or more systems achieved precision or recall below 50%. Of
the 93 questions analyzed, 49 met this performance threshold.
Hierarchical clustering is used here to group low-performing
questions into three clusters that reveal distinct failure patterns
across the three QA systems (Figure 13). Each label on the
right corresponds to one of the 49 questions for which at least
one system (BifrostRAG, vector-based RAG, or graph-based
RAG) achieved precision or recall below 0.50. The horizon-
tal axis (‘Dissimilarity’) reports the linkage distance at which
questions are merged, indicating how different two questions or
groups of questions are in terms of their model performance;
larger values indicate that the merged clusters are more dissim-
ilar in their performance. The vertical dashed line at a dissimi-
larity of 12.3 indicates the chosen cut level on the dendrogram.
This threshold was selected by inspecting the dendrogram for a
marked increase in linkage distance, which yields three well-
separated and interpretable clusters. Orange, green, and red
branches correspond to Cluster 1, Cluster 2, and Cluster 3, re-
spectively, which represent different types of error patterns for
vector-based RAG, graph-based RAG, and BifrostRAG as dis-
cussed in the following analysis.
Cluster 1 contains 6 questions where both graph-based RAG
and BifrostRAG perform poorly. These questions typically fea-
ture short queries with frequently occurring terminology. For
example, “True or False: Fall protection systems may be se-
cured to the scaffold itself” contains common entities that ap-
pear across numerous regulatory subparts: “fall protection sys-
tem” and “scaffold.” Both graph-based Cypher queries and
BifrostRAG’s entity and triple matching generate overly broad
16

[[page 17]]
Table 9: Results of Evaluation Metrics for Compared Models
Subpart Metrics BifrostRAG
Vector RAG
(OpenAI)
Graph RAG
(Neo4j) No RAG
Subpart L P 87.0% (0.327)87.2% (0.248)58.9% (0.475) 27.1% (0.277)
Fall Protection R84.0% (0.349)75.0% (0.325) 36.9% (0.378) 41.9% (0.429)
F184.1% (0.338)76.6% (0.276) 42.7% (0.388) 29.9% (0.287)
Subpart M P93.2% (0.245)85.5% (0.326) 74.1% (0.361) 22.1% (0.215)
Scaffolding R75.9% (0.298)52.1% (0.294) 52.0% (0.303) 40.1% (0.397)
F181.6% (0.263)61.1% (0.277) 59.3% (0.305) 26.8% (0.250)
Subpart P P 94.1% (0.166)100% (0.000)89.8% (0.192) 30.5% (0.183)
Excavation R95.1% (0.141)82.4% (0.246) 69.8% (0.301) 53.5% (0.383)
F193.6% (0.145)88.1% (0.179) 74.4% (0.239) 36.6% (0.225)
Subpart X P100% (0.000)97.4% (0.115) 71.1% (0.451) 24.8% (0.345)
Stairways and Ladders R92.8% (0.189)74.1% (0.276) 54.1% (0.404) 28.0% (0.353)
F195.0% (0.135)80.3% (0.200) 58.5% (0.397) 24.4% (0.310)
Overall P92.8% (0.240)91.1% (0.236) 71.4% (0.407) 25.8% (0.259)
R85.5% (0.282)69.5% (0.311) 50.8% (0.363) 40.7% (0.399)
F187.3% (0.257)75.0% (0.262) 56.5% (0.356) 29.1% (0.270)
Table 10: Overall performance of the QA systems with 95% bootstrap confi-
dence intervals
BifrostRAG Vector-based RAG Graph-based
RAG
Precision 92.8±3.6% 91.1±6.9% 71.4±10.3%
Recall 85.5±4.5% 69.5±8.2% 50.8±8.7%
F1-score 87.3±3.9% 75.0±7.2% 56.5±8.5%
Table 11: Results of Friedman Test
Metric Chi-Square Asymp.Sig Exact. Sig
Precision 25.597<0.001***<0.001***
Recall 47.528<0.001***<0.001***
F1 score 57.475<0.001***<0.001***
Note: * indicates p<0.05; ** indicates p<0.005; *** indicates p<0.001
candidate pools, making relevant section identification difficult.
Vector-based RAG performs significantly better by leveraging
semantic similarity to capture question intent when common
terminology creates retrieval noise.
Cluster 2 consists of 16 questions where only graph-based
RAG performs poorly. These questions involve terminologies
requiring contextual understanding for correct interpretation.
For instance, when asked about “safety precautions for work-
ing on a steep roof with areas of rot,” the graph-based RAG
fails to connect this phrasing with structural integrity provi-
sions, instead incorrectly returning sections about “wear” of
safety equipment. This demonstrates the system’s reliance
on entity matching rather than contextual comprehension. To
confirm this observation, the LangChain framework integrated
into Neo4j’s RAG system is tested separately by deploying its
GraphCypherQAChain locally. The findings indicated that al-
though the generated Cypher queries were generally accurate,
the system struggled to locate relevant sections due to the re-
quirement of exact syntactic matching for target entities and
relationships. In contrast, BifrostRAG demonstrates superior
17.5 15.0 12.5 10.0 7.5 5.0 2.5 0.0
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
$MVTUFS
$MVTUFS
$MVTUFS
)JFSBSDIJDBM$MVTUFSJOHPG-PX1FSGPSNJOH2VFTUJPOT
2VFTUJPO/VNCFS
%JTTJNJMBSJUZ
Figure 13: Hierarchical Clustering of Low-Performing Questions
performance through semantic matching of triple representa-
tions, enabling accurate interpretation of ambiguous terminol-
ogy within regulatory contexts.
Cluster 3 comprises 27 questions where BifrostRAG sig-
nificantly outperforms both alternatives, particularly in recall.
These questions require comprehensive information gathering
across document sections. Vector-based RAG identifies rele-
vant information but misses additional content due to limited re-
trieval breadth. Three key limitations contribute to this gap: in-
ability to follow explicit cross-references through semantic sim-
ilarity alone, context loss when text chunking separates related
sections, and diluted term representations in lengthy sentences
where specific meanings become averaged across broader con-
17

[[page 18]]
Table 12: Result of Post-hoc Analysis
Metric Model Pairwise Comparison Sig Pairwise Comparison Adj. Sig
BifrostRAG Vector RAG Graph RAG BifrostRAG Vector RAG Graph RAG
PrecisionBifrostRAG 1 1
Vector RAG 0.634 1 1 1
Graph RAG 0.003** 0.014* 1 0.010** 0.042* 1
RecallBifrostRAG 1 1
Vector RAG 0.002** 1 0.007** 1
Graph RAG<0.001*** 0.009** 1<0.001*** 0.028* 1
F1 ScoreBifrostRAG 1 1
Vector RAG<0.001*** 1<0.001*** 1
Graph RAG<0.001*** 0.016* 1<0.001*** 0.047* 1
Note: * indicates p<0.05; ** indicates p<0.005; *** indicates p<0.001
texts. The proposed hybrid retrieval mechanism addresses these
limitations by combining graph-based hierarchical document
representation with semantic understanding through entity and
triple representations, enabling the system to follow regulatory
connections while maintaining semantic comprehension.
7.4. Ablation Study and Threshold Sensitivity Analysis
To thoroughly evaluate the contributions of individual com-
ponents to overall system performance, an ablation study and
a threshold sensitivity analysis were conducted. BifrostRAG
employs a dual-graph framework comprising ENG and DNG.
The ablation study isolates the impact of each graph by examin-
ing performance under different configurations. The ENG-only
setup is adopted as the baseline, as it forms the system’s core
retrieval structure. The DNG is designed to enhance ENG re-
trieval by capturing document-level navigational relationships.
The sensitivity analysis investigates the effect of varying simi-
larity thresholds in the iEntity Refiner (IR), the component re-
sponsible for merging semantically similar entities. Five thresh-
old levels are tested:τ=80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, and 100%. A
threshold of 100% restricts merging to exact matches, while
lower thresholds allow merging based on semantic similarity.
Both experiments are conducted using 44 multi-hop questions
drawn from subparts P and M.
As shown in Table 13, augmenting ENG with DNG leads to
significant performance gains across all three evaluation met-
rics. Most notably, recall improves markedly from 63.85% in
the ENG-only setup to 84.85% when DNG is included. These
results underscore DNG’s value in supporting multi-hop rea-
soning by facilitating more thorough retrieval of relevant con-
tent, particularly by surfacing explicit relationships between
provisions in safety regulations. The threshold sensitivity anal-
ysis reveals clear performance patterns. With all other parame-
ters held constant, the system achieves peak F1 performance
atτ=95%. This indicates that the semantic merging pro-
vided by the IR component is both necessary and effective, but
must be applied judiciously. A strict 100% threshold results in
fragmented or redundant entity representations, impairing the
model’s ability to integrate related information. In contrast,
thresholds below 90% lead to overly permissive merging, con-
flating distinct entities and thereby reducing both precision and
recall by introducing irrelevant or misleading content.
Table 13: Ablation and Sensitivity Analysis Results
Model Configuration Precision Recall F1
Baseline 1: ENG only, IR (τ=100% ) 86.18% 63.45% 68.38%
Baseline 2: ENG only, IR(τ=95%) 87.65% 66.89% 72.39%
Baseline 3: ENG only, IR (τ=90% ) 87.47% 65.93% 71.95%
Baseline 4: ENG only, IR (τ=85% ) 83.38% 62.48% 65.71%
Baseline 5: ENG only, IR (τ=80% ) 81.76% 60.52% 64.41%
Full 1: ENG+DNG, IR (τ=100% ) 91.18% 84.42% 86.58%
Full 2: ENG+DNG,IR(τ=95%) 93.17% 86.26% 89.90%
Full 3: ENG+DNG,IR(τ=90%) 92.76% 87.53% 89.05%
Full 4: ENG+DNG, IR (τ=85% ) 90.51% 84.48% 85.18%
Full 5: ENG+DNG, IR (τ=80% ) 88.57% 81.55% 83.89%
8. Discussion
This paper demonstrates the efficacy of a RAG framework
for answering complex, multi-hop questions from safety reg-
ulations. The central contribution is an end-to-end automated
pipeline that translates raw regulations into two complementary
knowledge graphs, enabling both graph traversal and semantic
retrieval. This hybrid mechanism proves effective in providing
LLMs with comprehensive, contextually relevant information
for generating grounded answers.
8.1. Comparison with State-of-the-Art Solutions
When evaluated against a test set of 93 multi-hop questions,
the proposed system significantly outperforms leading end-
to-end solutions, including OpenAI’s vector-based RAG and
Neo4j’s graph-based RAG approaches. The most pronounced
advantages emerge in recall performance, demonstrating the
system’s superior capability to retrieve the complete regulatory
information required for accurate QA. Error analysis reveals
fundamental limitations inherent in general-purpose systems
when applied to domain-specific regulatory contexts. Neo4j’s
approach struggles because it is not designed to interpret or rea-
son over complex document structures. Another limitation is its
18

[[page 19]]
reliance on entity identification to initiate graph traversal. How-
ever, entities referenced in questions may not be identical with
those in the regulations [51] and regulations also frequently
employ multiple expressions to refer to identical entities [20].
This ambiguity necessitates interpreting broader semantic con-
text to correctly identify key entities–a capability that Neo4j’s
Cypher-based query approach alone cannot achieve [52, 53]. At
a more fundamental level, Neo4j’s underperformance in the ex-
periments reflects a mismatch between the strengths of conven-
tional graph-based RAG systems and the unique demands of
regulatory reasoning. Traditional graph-based RAG excels in
domains with clean, semantically structured knowledge graphs,
such as inferring relational chains like “A is B’s mother, B is
C’s father; therefore, A is C’s grandmother.” However, as the
results demonstrate, it struggles with the more complex multi-
hop questions characteristic of regulatory contexts. These ques-
tions require navigating both the formal structure of regulatory
documents and the implicit relationships embedded in ambigu-
ous legal language. Such challenges necessitate richer seman-
tic understanding and more flexible retrieval mechanisms than
conventional graph-based approaches provide.
In contrast, the proposed system’s performance advantage
derives from two key innovations: a dual-knowledge graph ar-
chitecture and a hybrid retrieval mechanism. The architecture
employs two distinct yet complementary graphs: the Document
Navigator Graph maps formal regulatory structure, including
hierarchical relationships and cross-references, while the Entity
Network Graph links sections sharing semantically similar enti-
ties or triples. The proposed hybrid retrieval mechanism lever-
ages this dual architecture through structured Cypher queries
that navigate the Document Navigator Graph to follow formal
structure, combined with vector-based similarity searches that
query the Entity Network Graph to uncover semantically-linked
information across the corpus. This integrated approach effec-
tively bridges fragmented regulatory texts, enabling compre-
hensive information retrieval and accurate multi-hop QA.
8.2. Practical implications
The methodology developed in this paper directly addresses a
critical responsible AI challenge in the modern construction in-
dustry. As the sector increasingly deploys LLMs for automated
compliance verification [54] and virtual instruction agent [55],
incomplete information retrieval creates acute operational risks,
particularly given that general-purpose RAG systems prove ill-
suited to safety documents’ linguistic and structural complexi-
ties. While earlier studies have acknowledged these challenges
[15, 13, 14], this paper provides one of the first systematic ap-
proaches to mapping and resolving complex inter-dependencies
between regulatory provisions. By bridging the gap between
current AI capabilities and stringent safety requirements, this
paper establishes a foundation for the digital transformation of
construction safety management.
This paper also contributes important insights for incremen-
tal knowledge graph construction, specifically regarding coref-
erence resolution–the process of identifying and merging het-
erogeneous linguistic expressions that refer to the same entity
across various data sources. Without effective coreference res-
olution, knowledge graphs become fragmented and inconsis-
tent, leading to misleading retrieval outcomes [56]. This ap-
proach provides actionable guidance for practitioners construct-
ing high-quality knowledge graphs for construction safety reg-
ulations.
8.3. Contributions to Methodological Discussions
Beyond immediate technological contributions, this paper
advances methodological discussions about RAG creation in
the era of generative AI with broad impact extending beyond
safety applications. Methodologically, most existing RAG re-
search focuses on model fine-tuning, algorithmic refinement,
and other micro-level optimizations [57, 13, 58, 48, 59, 14].
What distinguishes the proposed approach is its macro-level,
“architecture-first” methodology for RAG framework develop-
ment. This methodology began with systematic analysis of
document complexity, with these insights directly informing ar-
chitectural design. In particular, a detailed examination of the
characteristics of safety regulation texts illuminates why con-
ventional RAG approaches underperform in this context. By
contrast, a specialized architecture was explicitly designed to
overcome these limitations through dual-graph reasoning and
hybrid retrieval mechanism. The final system validated in this
paper reaffirms that human domain expertise remains essential
when building and scaffolding specialized AI systems. The
proposed method could inspire future research in developing
domain-specific RAG applications to address sector-specific
challenges.
In addition, LLMs were integrated throughout the automated
pipeline using ontology-free entity extraction and zero-shot
prompt engineering without requiring sophisticated fine-tuning.
The prompting strategy employs iterative refinement [58]: start-
ing with simple prompts, evaluating outputs, and progressively
adding specific guidelines to shape extraction behavior. The
prompts were refined on one regulatory subpart (achieving an
F1-score of 93.6% in Subpart P) and then applied to other sub-
parts, where consistent performance was maintained (84.1%
in L, 81.6% in M, 95% in X). This demonstrates promising
generalizability despite varying organizational structures, logic
flows, and distinct terminologies across different subparts [20].
While the value of formal ontologies and model fine-tuning is
acknowledged in many applications, the findings suggest that
this ontology-free, zero-shot approach represents a promising
alternative. In particular, it offers an accessible pathway for
even non-technical domain experts to build graph-based RAG
systems.
Finally, this paper challenges the standard reliance on for-
mal graph languages like Cypher for retrieval graph-based RAG
systems by introducing a hybrid retrieval mechanism. Cypher
requires exact syntactic and semantic matches between queries
and schemas [49]. While Neo4j integrates translation tools
like LangChain’s GraphCypherQAChain that may lower tech-
nical barriers in crafting Cypher queries, the results demon-
strate that these translations still struggle with complex safety
regulations. This observation aligns with findings regarding
19

[[page 20]]
other similar translation tools [44]. The proposed hybrid ap-
proach combines two retrieval modalities: Cypher is employed
exclusively for the well-structured Document Navigator Graph
while embedding similarity is used for the unstructured Entity
Network Graph. This approach proves more fault-tolerant with
natural language questions and more adequately handles en-
tity ambiguities in safety regulation texts. Through compara-
tive evaluation and error analysis of three approaches, this pa-
per provides methodological insights into optimizing retrieval-
structure alignment for effective information identification.
8.4. Limitations and Future Research
Several limitations of this paper provide directions for fu-
ture research. First, this paper focuses exclusively on OSHA
1926, leaving transferability to other regulatory domains or or-
ganizational documents unvalidated. Second, future research
should explore alternative methodologies, such as agentic ap-
proaches, to continuously enhance RAG’s capability to handle
multi-hop questions that are essential for LLMs’ real-world ap-
plications [11]. Third, this paper did not directly compare the
LLM-based knowledge graph construction method with alter-
native approaches such as deep learning-based methods. Future
work should incorporate established knowledge graph quality
metrics and systematically analyze error propagation patterns
while investigating methods to further improve LLMs’ or other
automated approaches’ ability to extract entities and relation-
ships. Finally, although the proposed knowledge graphs al-
ready contain more nodes and edges than most existing stud-
ies [48, 59, 11, 15, 12], the impact of graph scale on retrieval
efficiency and QA quality requires investigation. Additionally,
increasing the number of test questions would further validate
the stability and consistency of the findings of this paper. Un-
derstanding these scaling dynamics is essential for developing
deployment-ready systems capable of handling enterprise-scale
regulatory documents in real-world applications.
9. Conclusions
The linguistic and structural complexity of construction
safety regulations poses significant challenges for building ef-
fective information retrieval and QA systems foundational to
many automated safety management solutions. This paper in-
troduced an end-to-end RAG methodology that converts un-
structured safety regulations into knowledge graphs to enable
more effective multi-hop QA using LLMs. The proposed sys-
tem outperforms state-of-the-art baselines, particularly achiev-
ing better performance on complex queries that require col-
lecting dispersed evidence. This improvement is attributed to
the dual-knowledge graph architecture and the hybrid retrieval
mechanism incorporated into the RAG pipeline. These results
show that semantic matching and structural navigation exhibit
a synergistic effect, yielding performance gains beyond those
achievable by either strategy alone.
From a technical perspective, the proposed approach ad-
dresses a critical gap in designing domain-specific RAG sys-
tems that balance advanced AI capabilities with strict safety
and compliance demands. Beyond the technical contributions,
this work advances methodological discussions on the syner-
gistic integration of LLMs and knowledge graphs. Specifically,
it highlights how domain knowledge informs high-level RAG
architecture design, supports ontology-free and zero-shot con-
struction of knowledge graphs, and guides the selection of re-
trieval strategies suited to graph structures.
The findings carry practical implications for responsible AI
deployment in construction safety contexts, where incomplete
or imprecise information retrieval can lead to serious opera-
tional risks. The proposed approach can enhance safety train-
ing, support on-site real-time queries, and automate compliance
verification throughout the project lifecycle. Moreover, the sys-
tem’s answers are traceable to specific regulatory provisions,
enabling efficient updates and ongoing maintenance as regula-
tions evolve.
Overall, this research advances AI-enhanced construction
safety knowledge management, contributing to a safer and more
efficient future for the industry. Future work should explore
the generalizability of the methodology beyond OSHA 1926 to
broader regulatory documents such as building codes and tech-
nical specifications. In parallel, research into more adaptive
RAG paradigms is needed to further improve multi-hop QA
performance in dynamic, real-world scenarios. Finally, system-
atic studies are essential to examine how scaling graph size and
corpus complexity affect retrieval efficiency and QA quality.
Declaration of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies in
the writing process
During the preparation of this work the authors used Chat-
GPT in order to improve language. After using this tool, the
authors reviewed and edited the content as needed and take full
responsibility for the content of the published article.
References
[1] Q. Chen, D. Long, C. Yang, H. Xu, Knowledge graph improved dy-
namic risk analysis method for behavior-based safety management on a
construction site, Journal of Management in Engineering 39 (4) (2023)
04023023.doi:10.1061/JMENEA.MEENG-5306.
[2] Y . Lu, Q. Li, Z. Zhou, Y . Deng, Ontology-based knowledge modeling for
automated construction safety checking, Safety Science 79 (2015) 11–18.
doi:10.1016/j.ssci.2015.05.008.
[3] S. Choe, S. Yun, F. Leite, Analysis of the effectiveness of the osha steel
erection standard in the construction industry, Safety Science 89 (2016)
190–200.doi:10.1016/j.ssci.2016.06.016.
[4] D. Michaels, J. Barab, The occupational safety and health administra-
tion at 50: protecting workers in a changing economy, American journal
of public health 110 (5) (2020) 631–635.doi:10.2105/AJPH.2020.
305597.
[5] P. Schulte, A. Okun, C. Stephenson, M. Colligan, H. Ahlers, C. Gjessing,
G. Loos, R. Niemeier, M. Sweeney, Information dissemination and use:
Critical components in occupational safety and health, American Journal
of Industrial Medicine 44 (5) (2003) 515–531.doi:10.1002/ajim.
10295.
[6] W. Solihin, C. Eastman, A knowledge representation approach in bim
rule requirement analysis using the conceptual graph, Journal of Infor-
mation Technology in Construction 21 (24) (2016) 370–401, accessed 16
November 2025.
URLhttp://www.itcon.org/2016/24
20

[[page 21]]
[7] Y . Zhou, W. Solihin, J. K. W. Yeoh, Facilitating knowledge transfer dur-
ing code compliance checking using conceptual graphs, Journal of Com-
puting in Civil Engineering 37 (5) (2023) 05023001.doi:10.1061/
JCCEE5.CPENG-4884.
[8] X. Wang, N. El-Gohary, Few-shot object detection and attribute recog-
nition from construction site images for improved field compliance,
Automation in Construction 167 (2024) 105539.doi:10.1016/j.
autcon.2024.105539.
[9] H. Wu, B. Zhong, H. Li, P. Love, X. Pan, N. Zhao, Combining com-
puter vision with semantic reasoning for on-site safety management in
construction, Journal of Building Engineering 42 (2021) 103036.doi:
10.1016/j.jobe.2021.103036.
[10] A. S. Kulinan, M. Park, P. P. W. Aung, G. Cha, S. Park, Advancing
construction site workforce safety monitoring through bim and com-
puter vision integration, Automation in Construction 158 (2024) 105227.
doi:10.1016/j.autcon.2023.105227.
[11] D. Cui, S. Xu, S. Wang, K. Zhang, Beyond the images: Comprehensible
unsafe behaviour recognition boosted by joint inference graph with multi-
hop reasoning, Advanced Engineering Informatics 66 (2025) 103454.
doi:10.1016/j.aei.2025.103454.
[12] J. Zhang, X. Ruan, H. Si, X. Wang, Dynamic hazard analysis on con-
struction sites using knowledge graphs integrated with real-time informa-
tion, Automation in Construction 170 (2025) 105938.doi:10.1016/j.
autcon.2024.105938.
[13] J. Lee, S. Ahn, D. Kim, D. Kim, Performance comparison of retrieval-
augmented generation and fine-tuned large language models for construc-
tion safety management knowledge retrieval, Automation in Construction
168 (2024) 105846.doi:10.1016/j.autcon.2024.105846.
[14] Y . Chen, G. Lu, K. Wang, S. Chen, C. Duan, Knowledge graph for
safety management standards of water conservancy construction engi-
neering, Automation in Construction 168 (2024) 105873.doi:10.1016/
j.autcon.2024.105873.
[15] C. Wu, W. Ding, Q. Jin, J. Jiang, R. Jiang, Q. Xiao, L. Liao, X. Li, Re-
trieval augmented generation-driven information retrieval and question
answering in construction management, Advanced Engineering Informat-
ics 65 (2025) 103158.doi:10.1016/j.aei.2025.103158.
[16] L. Guo, F. Yan, T. Li, T. Yang, Y . Lu, An automatic method for con-
structing machining process knowledge base from knowledge graph,
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing 73 (2022) 102222.
doi:10.1016/j.rcim.2021.102222.
[17] A. Hogan, E. Blomqvist, M. Cochez, C. D’amato, G. De Melo, C. Gutier-
rez, S. Kirrane, et al., Knowledge graphs, ACM Computing Surveys
54 (4) (2021) 1–37.doi:10.1145/3447772.
[18] J. Dong, Q. Zhang, X. Huang, K. Duan, Q. Tan, Z. Jiang, Hierarchy-aware
multi-hop question answering over knowledge graphs, in: Proceedings of
the ACM Web Conference 2023, 2023, pp. 2519–2527.doi:10.1145/
3543507.3583376.
[19] R. Ren, J. Zhang, Semantic rule-based construction procedural informa-
tion extraction to guide jobsite sensing and monitoring, Journal of Com-
puting in Civil Engineering 35 (6) (2021) 04021026.doi:10.1061/
(ASCE)CP.1943-5487.0000971.
[20] X. Wang, N. El-Gohary, Deep learning-based named entity recognition
and resolution of referential ambiguities for enhanced information ex-
traction from construction safety regulations, Journal of Computing in
Civil Engineering 37 (5) (2023) 04023023.doi:10.1061/(ASCE)CP.
1943-5487.0001064.
[21] X. Wang, N. El-Gohary, Deep learning-based relation extraction and
knowledge graph-based representation of construction safety require-
ments, Automation in Construction 147 (2023) 104696.doi:10.1016/
j.autcon.2022.104696.
[22] H. Wang, S. Xu, D. Cui, H. Xu, H. Luo, Information integration of
regulation texts and tables for automated construction safety knowledge
mapping, Journal of Construction Engineering and Management 150 (5)
(2024) 04024034.doi:10.1061/JCEMD4.COENG-14436.
[23] V . Mavi, A. Jangra, A. Jatowt, Multi-hop question answering, Foun-
dations and Trends®in Information Retrieval 17 (5) (2024) 457–586.
doi:10.1561/1500000102.
[24] L. Ehrlinger, W. Wöß, Towards a definition of knowledge graphs, in:
Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Semantic Systems
(SEMANTiCS 2016) Posters, Demos and Workshop Track, V ol. 1695
of CEUR Workshop Proceedings, CEUR-WS.org, 2016, accessed 16
November 2025.
URLhttp://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1695/paper4.pdf
[25] H. Paulheim, Knowledge graph refinement: A survey of approaches
and evaluation methods, Semantic Web 8 (3) (2017) 489–508.doi:
10.3233/SW-160218.
[26] S. Malyshev, M. Krötzsch, L. González, J. Gonsior, A. Bielefeldt, Get-
ting the most out of wikidata: Semantic technology usage in wikipedia’s
knowledge graph, in: The Semantic Web – ISWC 2018, V ol. 11137, 2018,
pp. 376–394.doi:10.1007/978-3-030-00668-6_23.
[27] M. Yahya, J. G. Breslin, M. I. Ali, Semantic web and knowledge graphs
for industry 4.0, Applied Sciences 11 (11) (2021) 5110.doi:10.3390/
app11115110.
[28] X. Zou, A survey on application of knowledge graph, Journal of Physics:
Conference Series 1487 (1) (2020) 012016.doi:10.1088/1742-6596/
1487/1/012016.
[29] J. Qian, X.-Y . Li, C. Zhang, L. Chen, T. Jung, J. Han, Social network de-
anonymization and privacy inference with knowledge graph model, IEEE
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing 16 (4) (2019) 679–
692.doi:10.1109/TDSC.2017.2697854.
[30] Z. Wang, T. Chen, J. Ren, W. Yu, H. Cheng, L. Lin, Deep reasoning with
knowledge graph for social relationship understanding, arXiv preprint
(2018).doi:10.48550/arXiv.1807.00504.
[31] S. Zhu, J. Zhou, L. Cheng, X. Fu, Y . Wang, K. Dai, Research on a bim
model quality compliance checking method based on a knowledge graph,
Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering 39 (1) (2025) 04024049.doi:
10.1061/JCCEE5.CPENG-5950.
[32] V . K. Kommineni, B. König-Ries, S. Samuel, From human experts to ma-
chines: An llm supported approach to ontology and knowledge graph con-
struction, arXiv preprint (2024).doi:10.48550/arXiv.2403.08345.
[33] L. Asprino, E. Daga, A. Gangemi, P. Mulholland, Knowledge graph con-
struction with a façade: A unified method to access heterogeneous data
sources on the web, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology 23 (1)
(2023) 6:1–6:31.doi:10.1145/3555312.
[34] S. Ji, S. Pan, E. Cambria, P. Marttinen, P. S. Yu, A survey on knowledge
graphs: Representation, acquisition, and applications, IEEE Transactions
on Neural Networks and Learning Systems 33 (2) (2022) 494–514.doi:
10.1109/TNNLS.2021.3070843.
[35] L. Zhong, J. Wu, Q. Li, H. Peng, X. Wu, A comprehensive survey on au-
tomatic knowledge graph construction, ACM Computing Surveys 56 (4)
(2023) 94:1–94:62.doi:10.1145/3618295.
[36] T. Al-Moslmi, M. G. Ocana, A. L. Opdahl, C. Veres, Named entity extrac-
tion for knowledge graphs: A literature overview, IEEE Access 8 (2020)
32862–32881.doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2973928.
[37] K. Nassiri, M. Akhloufi, Transformer models used for text-based ques-
tion answering systems, Applied Intelligence 53 (9) (2023) 10602–10635.
doi:10.1007/s10489-022-04052-8.
[38] L. Huang, W. Yu, W. Ma, W. Zhong, Z. Feng, H. Wang, Q. Chen, et al.,
A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxon-
omy, challenges, and open questions, ACM Transactions on Information
Systems 43 (2) (2025) 1–55.doi:10.1145/3703155.
[39] T. Korbak, H. Elsahar, G. Kruszewski, M. Dymetman, On reinforce-
ment learning and distribution matching for fine-tuning language models
with no catastrophic forgetting, arXiv preprint (2022).doi:10.48550/
arXiv.2206.00761.
[40] Z. Liu, W. Ping, R. Roy, P. Xu, C. Lee, M. Shoeybi, B. Catanzaro, Chatqa:
Surpassing gpt-4 on conversational qa and rag, arXiv preprint (2024).
doi:10.48550/arXiv.2401.10225.
[41] T. R. McIntosh, T. Liu, T. Susnjak, P. Watters, A. Ng, M. N. Halgamuge,
A culturally sensitive test to evaluate nuanced gpt hallucination, IEEE
Transactions on Artificial Intelligence 5 (6) (2024) 2739–2751.doi:
10.1109/TAI.2023.3332837.
[42] S. Pan, L. Luo, Y . Wang, C. Chen, J. Wang, X. Wu, Unifying large
language models and knowledge graphs: A roadmap, IEEE Transac-
tions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 36 (7) (2024) 3580–3599.
doi:10.1109/TKDE.2024.3352100.
[43] Y . Zhu, X. Wang, J. Chen, S. Qiao, Y . Ou, Y . Yao, S. Deng, H. Chen,
N. Zhang, Llms for knowledge graph construction and reasoning: Recent
capabilities and future opportunities, World Wide Web 27 (5) (2024) 58.
doi:10.1007/s11280-024-01297-w.
[44] L.-P. Meyer, J. Frey, F. Brei, N. Arndt, Assessing sparql capabilities of
large language models, arXiv preprint (2024).doi:10.48550/arXiv.
21

[[page 22]]
2409.05925.
[45] T. Taipalus, Vector database management systems: Fundamental con-
cepts, use-cases, and current challenges, Cognitive Systems Research 85
(2024) 101216.doi:10.1016/j.cogsys.2024.101216.
[46] Y . Wan, Z. Chen, Y . Liu, C. Chen, M. Packianather, Empowering llms by
hybrid retrieval-augmented generation for domain-centric q&a in smart
manufacturing, Advanced Engineering Informatics 65 (2025) 103212.
doi:10.1016/j.aei.2025.103212.
[47] X. Pan, W. Zhuang, S. Wen, W. Yu, J. Bao, X. Li, A context-aware kg-
llm collaborated conceptual design approach for personalized products:
A case in lower limbs rehabilitation assistive devices, Advanced Engi-
neering Informatics 66 (2025) 103422.doi:10.1016/j.aei.2025.
103422.
[48] D. Zhang, G. Ma, T. Qu, X. Wang, W. Zhou, X. Wang, A knowl-
edge graph-enhanced large language model for question answering of hy-
draulic structure safety management, Advanced Engineering Informatics
66 (2025) 103468.doi:10.1016/j.aei.2025.103468.
[49] N. Francis, A. Green, P. Guagliardo, L. Libkin, T. Lindaaker, V . Marsault,
S. Plantikow, M. Rydberg, P. Selmer, A. Taylor, Cypher: An evolving
query language for property graphs, in: Proceedings of the 2018 In-
ternational Conference on Management of Data, 2018, pp. 1433–1445.
doi:10.1145/3183713.3190657.
[50] F. Sammour, J. Xu, X. Wang, M. Hu, Z. Zhang, Responsible ai in con-
struction safety: Systematic evaluation of large language models and
prompt engineering, arXiv preprint (2024).doi:10.48550/arXiv.
2411.08320.
[51] J. Pujara, E. Augustine, L. Getoor, Sparsity and noise: Where knowl-
edge graph embeddings fall short, in: Proceedings of the 2017 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2017, pp.
1751–1756.doi:10.18653/v1/D17-1184.
[52] R. Omar, O. Mangukiya, P. Kalnis, E. Mansour, Chatgpt versus tradi-
tional question answering for knowledge graphs: Current status and fu-
ture directions towards knowledge graph chatbots, arXiv preprint (2023).
doi:10.48550/arXiv.2302.06466.
[53] Y . Tan, D. Min, Y . Li, W. Li, N. Hu, Y . Chen, G. Qi, Can chatgpt re-
place traditional kbqa models? an in-depth analysis of the question an-
swering performance of the gpt llm family, in: The Semantic Web -
ISWC 2023, V ol. 14265, Springer, 2023, pp. 348–367.doi:10.1007/
978-3-031-47240-4_19.
[54] M. Adil, G. Lee, V . A. Gonzalez, Q. Mei, Using vision language mod-
els for safety hazard identification in construction, arXiv preprint (2025).
doi:10.48550/arXiv.2504.09083.
[55] A. Sabir, R. Hussain, A. Pedro, C. Park, Personalized construction safety
training system using conversational ai in virtual reality, Automation
in Construction 175 (2025) 106207.doi:10.1016/j.autcon.2025.
106207.
[56] Y . Lairgi, L. Monela, R. Cazabet, K. Benabdeslem, P. Cléau, Text2kg:
Incremental knowledge graphs construction using large language models,
in: Web Information Systems Engineering – WISE 2024, V ol. 15439,
2025, pp. 214–229.doi:10.1007/978-981-96-0573-6_16.
[57] X. Xue, J. Zhang, Y . Chen, Question-answering framework for build-
ing codes using fine-tuned and distilled pre-trained transformer mod-
els, Automation in Construction 168 (2024) 105730.doi:10.1016/j.
autcon.2024.105730.
[58] K. Jeon, G. Lee, Hybrid large language model approach for prompt and
sensitive defect management: A comparative analysis of hybrid, non-
hybrid, and graphrag approaches, Advanced Engineering Informatics 64
(2025) 103076.doi:10.1016/j.aei.2024.103076.
[59] C. Zheng, S. Wong, X. Su, Y . Tang, A. Nawaz, M. Kassem, Automat-
ing construction contract review using knowledge graph-enhanced large
language models, Automation in Construction 175 (2025) 106179.doi:
10.1016/j.autcon.2025.106179.
22