[[page 1]]
Improving Embedded Knowledge Graph Multi-hop Question
Answering by introducing Relational Chain Reasoning
Weiqiang Jin
School of Computer Engineering
and Science
Shanghai University
Baoshan, Shanghai, China
weiqiangjin@shu.edu.cn
Hang Yu
School of Computer Engineering
and Science
Shanghai University
Baoshan, Shanghai, China
yuhang@shu.edu.cn
Xi Tao
School of Computer Engineering
and Science
Shanghai University
Baoshan, Shanghai, China
20721546@shu.edu.cn
Ruiping Yin
Information Faculty of
Computer School
Beijing University of Technology
Chaoyang, Beijing, China
yinruiping@bjut.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Knowledge Base Question Answering (KBQA) aims to answer user
questions from a knowledge base (KB) by identifying the reasoning
relations between topic entity and answer. As a complex branch
task of KBQA, multi-hop KGQA requires reasoning over multi-hop
relational chains preserved in KG to arrive at the right answer.
Despite the successes made in recent years, the existing works on
answering multi-hop complex question face the following chal-
lenges: i) suffering from poor performances due to the neglect of
explicit relational chain order and its relational types reflected in
user questions; ii) failing to consider implicit relations between the
topic entity and the answer implied in structured KG because of
limited neighborhood size constraints in subgraph retrieval-based
algorithms. To address these issues in multi-hop KGQA, we propose
a novel model in this paper, namely Relational Chain-based Embed-
ded KGQA (Rce-KGQA), which simultaneously utilizes the explicit
relational chain described in natural language questions and the
implicit relational chain stored in structured KG. Our extensive
empirical study on two open-domain benchmarks proves that our
method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art counterparts
like GraftNet, PullNet and EmbedKGQA. Comprehensive ablation
experiments also verify the effectiveness of our method for multi-
hop KGQA tasks. We have made our model’s source code available
at Github: https://github.com/albert-jin/Rce-KGQA.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France
© 2022 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/18/06. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/1122XXX.112XXXX
CCS CONCEPTS
• Information systems → Web search engines ; • Computing
methodologies→ Discourse, dialogue and pragmatics; Infor-
mation extraction.
KEYWORDS
Question Answering, Knowledge Graph based Multi-hop QA, Neu-
ral Semantic Parsing, Knowledge Graph Embedding
ACM Reference Format:
Weiqiang Jin, Hang Yu, Xi Tao, and Ruiping Yin. 2022. Improving Embedded
Knowledge Graph Multi-hop Question Answering by introducing Relational
Chain Reasoning. InLyon ’22: ACM, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France.ACM,
New York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/1122XXX.112XXXX
1 INTRODUCTION
Given a natural language question, the Knowledge Base Question
Answering (KBQA) system aims to answer the correct target en-
tities from a given knowledge base (KB) [ 9]. It relies on certain
capabilities including capturing rich semantic information to un-
derstand natural language questions accurately seeking correct
answers in large scale structured knowledge databases. Knowledge
Graph Question Answering (KGQA) [27, 34] is a popular research
branch of KBQA which uses a knowledge graph (KG) as its knowl-
edge source [9, 18] to answer natural language questions. Thanks
to KG’s unique data structure and its efficient querying capability,
users can benefit from a more efficient acquisition of the substantial
and valuable KG knowledge, and gain excellent customer experi-
ence.
Early works [20, 21] on KGQA focus on answering a simple ques-
tion, where only a single relation between the topic entity and the
answer are involved. To solve simple question tasks, most tradi-
tional methods [1, 3] create diverse predefined manual templates
and then utilize these templates to map unstructured questions
into structured logical forms. Unfortunately, these predefined tem-
plates and hand-crafted syntactic rules are both labor-intensive
and expensive. Due to the dependency of large-scale fixed rules
arXiv:2110.12679v1  [cs.CL]  25 Oct 2021

[[page 2]]
Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France Weiqiang Jin and Hang Yu, et al.
and manual templates, these methods cannot handle complex ques-
tions which require multiple relations inferences. To make KGQA
more applicable in realistic application scenarios, researchers have
shifted their attentions from simple questions to complex questions
[12, 22, 33]. Knowledge graph multi-hop question answering is a
challenging task which aims to seek answers to multiple hops away
from the topic entity in the knowledge graph. For example, the ques-
tion “Who directed the films which [Martin Lawrence] acted in?”
is a complex multi-hop question which requires a relational chain
(starred_actors, directed_by) which has multiple relationships to ar-
rive at the corresponding answers. This task is a relatively complex
task compared with its simple counterparts due to the multi-hop
relations retrieval procedure [18] which requires more than one
KG fact in the inference.
Previous approaches [4, 6, 13, 35] for handling complex question
answering construct a specialized pipeline consisting of multiple
semantic parsing and knowledge graph answer retrieving modules
to complete the KGQA task. However, they mostly have several
drawbacks and encounter various challenges. We summarize these
challenges as follows:
Unexpected Relation Type Recognition. As the first step of
KGQA, a semantic parser of most existing methods suffers from
low accuracy in recognizing the correct relational type implied in
questions, which hinders downstream answering reasoning. For
example, as shown in Fig. 1, let us consider questions where the
topic entity and answer are connected by a multiple-hop reason-
ing chain, e.g., “Who acted in the movies directed by the director
[Martin Lawrence]?”. To answer this type of question, the related
two facts (Martin Lawrence, directed_by_reverse) and (A Tine Line,
starred_actors_reverse, Gone Fishin) help derive the answers within
the neighborhood of the topic entity [Martin Lawrence]. Typically,
these methods are prone to encounter incorrect relational reason-
ing (𝐴𝐵− >𝐴𝐶) when we mistake the unexpected relational chain
(starred_actors_reverse, written_by) for the expected relational
chain (starred_actors_reverse, directed_by_reverse).
Expected Reasoning Chain
Unexpected Reasoning Chain
Irrelevant Reasoning Chain
Black Knight
Martin
Lawrence
Comedy
Bad Boys II 
A Thin Line between 
Love and Hate
1996 Comedy
Kim Bass
Endless Love
Eve`s  Bayou
Gone Fishin
Brave Heart
Meagan Good
Figure 1: The Freebase subgraph entered on the topic entity
[Martin Lawrence] of the example questions. The red, yel-
low, green, green with an imaginary line, and grey circles
denote the topic, intermediate, expected, unexpected and ir-
relevant entity nodes, respectively. The green, red and grey
colored edges indicate the correct, incorrect and irrelevant
reasoning chains, respectively.
Unexpected Relation Order Recognition. Semantic parsing-
based methods mostly do not effectively utilize the correlation
information of relationship order and direction from user question
expression. They become more susceptible to incorrect question un-
derstanding when the questions are complicated from both seman-
tic and syntactic aspects. The accuracy rate of parsing syntactics
can be dramatically decreased by those with long-distance depen-
dency. More especially, tracing back to the above question example
and Fig. 1, in addition to the correct chain (with green arrows),
the spurious multi-hop chain (with red arrows) from entity node
[Martin Lawrence] to [Kim Bass] can lead to incorrect reasoning
results when the semantic parser module parses semantics fail such
as reversing (𝐴𝐵− > 𝐵𝐴) or shuffling (𝐴𝐵𝐶− > 𝐵𝐶𝐴) the correct
order of the relational chain.
Implicit Relation Reasoning & Subgraph Neighborhood
Constraint. Most mainstream KGQA methods cannot implicitly
capture knowledge of implicit relational chains for reasoning due to
the limited neighborhood size constraint. All the answers are pro-
vided by retrieving the extracted question subgraph. Let us consider
the question “Who is [Renate Remedio]’s cousin?”. As depicted in
Fig. 2, the corresponding knowledge graph has no direct relational
chain between the topic entity [Renate Remedio] and answer [Ama-
ranta Orsule]. In other words, for successive KGQA solutions in the
future, it is important to have the capability to discover the implicit
factoid knowledge (Remedio<- Cousin ->Orsule) in the incomplete
KG by the explicit relational chain (Remedio<- Father - Siblings -
Mother ->Orsule), similar to the KG-based link prediction task [26].
Renata Remedios
Amaranta Orsula
Jose Arcadio
Segundo
Tose Areadio
Renate Remedios
Brother
Brother Sibling
Sibling
Father
Mother
Daughter
Son
Cousin
Cousin-1
Figure 2: A structured knowledge graph related to the user
question “Who is [Renate Remedio]’s cousin?”. The illus-
tration typically introduces implicit relations between the
topic entity and the answer that hide in KG.
To alleviate these limitations and challenges for the multi-hop
KGQA task, in this paper, we introduce a novel architecture, namely
Relational Chain based Embedded KGQA, which supports the in-
tegration to learn the explicit relational mappings implied in the
user’s expression and the implicit knowledge from the structured
KG, similar to link prediction. Our proposed approach solves these
limitations by simultaneously utilizing the explicit semantic rela-
tional chain described in the question and the implicit relational
chain between the structured KG nodes. Motivated by the previ-
ous work EmbedKGQA [28], our model leverages an end-to-end

[[page 3]]
Improving Embedded Knowledge Graph Multi-hop Question Answering by introducing Relational Chain Reasoning Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France
neural network that utilizes the KG entity and relation embeddings
to provide complex questions answers from the KG. To obtain a
more competitive performance in large-scale KG, we apply an extra
reasoning procedure called the Relational Chain Reasoning Mod-
ule to prune the candidate entities ranked by the Answer Filtering
Module. We apply a Siamese architecture [ 16] based on the long
short-term memory (LSTM) and transformer RoBERTa [7] to learn
the semantic similarity between the relational chain of the prob-
lem description and the KG factoid relational chain. By calculating
the semantic similarity between question semantics and candidate
entity retrieval chain, we can further determine the final answer
more accurately.
We summarize the contributions of this paper as follows:
1. We propose a novel approach namely Relational Chain based
Embedded KGQA . Different from previous studies, our model si-
multaneously takes advantage of the knowledge graph embedding
and training with weak supervision by predicting the intermediate
relational chain implied in KG to perform the multi-hop KGQA
task.
2. We introduce the Answer Filtering Module, a knowledge graph
embedding based end-to-end network for preliminary answer filter-
ing. This module can address the incompleteness problem brought
by the missing links in the incomplete knowledge graph thanks to
its capability of capturing implicit KG relationships.
3. Our proposed Relational Chain Reasoning Module can help cap-
ture the multi-hop relations surrounding the topic node to support
the results more accurately. We apply the Siamese network [ 16]
to calculate the vector representation-based semantic similarity
score between the user’s question and KG structured knowledge.
To the best of our knowledge, our proposed sub-module is the first
to consider the question relational direction and order information
by utilizing the Siamese network.
4. Our experimental results on two widely adopted KGQA bench-
marks show that our method significantly outperforms the recent
SOTA methods . Furthermore, using an extensive ablation study,
we demonstrate the superiority and effectiveness of our proposed
model for the multi-hop KGQA task.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We first provide
a thorough review of the related KGQA works in Sec. 2. Next,
following the internal structure of our model, we then explicate
our two features: Answer Filtering Module in Sec. 3.2 and Relational
Chain Reasoning Module in Sec. 3.3, respectively. Sec. 4 describes the
experimental details on two open-domain datasets. Finally, in Sec.
5, we conclude our contributions in this work and suggest several
promising innovations for our Relational Chain based Embedded
KGQA in the future.
2 RELATED WORK
Our work is closely related to the Multi-hop Knowledge Graph
Question Answering, Knowledge graph embedding .
2.1 Multi-hop KGQA
Multi-hop Knowledge Base Question Answering includes two main-
stream branches: Information Retrieval-based (IR) and Semantic
Parsing-based (SP-based). The most popular methods fall into these
two categories.
SP-based approaches follow a parse-then-execute procedure.
These methods [5, 14, 19, 28, 32] can be summarized into the fol-
lowing steps: (1) question semantic understanding : parsing relations
and subjects involved in complex questions, (2) logical formula con-
struction: decode the subgraph into an executable logic form such
as high-level programming languages or structured queries such as
SPARQL, (3) KG-based positioning and querying : search from KGs
using the query language and provide query results as the final
answer.
IR-based approaches typically include a series of procedures
as follows: question-specific graph extraction, question semantics
representation, extracted graph-based reasoning and answer candi-
dates ranking. Given a complex question description, these meth-
ods [15, 36] first construct a question-specific subgraph which in-
cludes all question-related entity nodes and relation edges from
KGs . Secondly, An extracted graph-based reasoning module con-
ducts a semantic matching algorithm to aggregate the center entity’
neighborhoods information from the question-specific subgraph.
At the end of the reasoning, they rank all the entities’ scores in the
subgraph by utilizing an answer ranking module and predict the
top-ranked entities as the final answers.
2.2 Knowledge Graph Embedding
Knowledge Graph Embedding [32] is to embed a KG’s factoid triples
knowledges including all entities and relations into continuous and
low-dimensional embedding representation space . Representative
KG embedding models exploit the distance-based scoring function
𝑓(·) which is used to measure the plausibility of a triple(topic entity,
predicate, and tail entity) as the distance between the head and tail
entity such as TransE [ 17] and its extensions (e.g. TransH [ 8]),
DistMult [25] and ComplEx [10]. In short, a typical KG embedding
technique generally consists of three steps: (1) representing entities
and relations, (2) defining a scoring function, and (3) learning entity
and relation representations. The effectiveness of knowledge graph
embedding in various real-world NLP tasks motivates us to explore
its potential advantages in the KGQA task.
3 OUR PROPOSED MODEL
Our Relational Chain based Embedded KGQA is a two-stage pipeline
model which consists of two components: Answer Filtering Module
and Relational Chain Reasoning Module .
3.1 Overview
As illustrated in Fig. 3, given a real-world question and an available
KG, the Answer Filtering Module first jointly leverages topic entity
embedding and question representation to score all possible candi-
date entities in this KG to provide a set of pruned candidate answers
for this question. However, the entity nodes in a KG are often as
large as a million scale, hence it could be noisy and inaccurate when
comparing the topic entity with all other entities ˆt. To make the
learning more efficient and accurate, we do not directly select the
top-1 scoring entity from the sorted entities as our final answer.
Instead, we introduce the extra module Relational Chain Reasoning
Module to take the relation type and order of semantic relational
chain into consideration for a higherℎ𝑖𝑡@1 accuracy result.

[[page 4]]
Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France Weiqiang Jin and Hang Yu, et al.
Who 
directed 
movies 
written 
by 
the 
writer 
of 
[Millennium 
Actress]?
Question
Answer Filtering Module
Relational Reasoning Chain 
Module
Kim Bass
Mankiewicz
Gone Fishin 0.983
0.991
0.976
ScoreAnswer
Candidate Entities
Final Answer Gone Fishin
Kim Bass
Mankiewicz
Gone Fishin
0.825
0.997
0.639
ScoreAnswer
Answer Scores
Figure 3: This figure shows our overall pipeline architecture
for the multi-hop KGQA task. The green rectangles rect-
angles denote our two sub-modules, the solid arrows and
dashed arrows indicate the information flowing through
our model and the intermediate results.
Before being fed into the next stage, we transform these inter-
mediate candidate entities to their shortest relational chains which
point to the question’s topic entity by retrieving them in KG and
map these ordered chains to sequences of embedding which cor-
responds with our embedded KG. The Relational Chain Reasoning
Module receives the intermediate results generated by the last step.
Then, it simultaneously utilizes the relational chain sequences and
user question to measure the mutual similarity score through our
Siamese network. Taking the question relational chain reasoning
details into consideration can help increase the accuracy of answer
prediction compared with the first stage, the Answer Filtering Mod-
ule. Last, after sorting the scored candidates, we choose the entity
which has the highest similarity score as the final answer. Algo-
rithm 1 formally illustrates how our method works and predicts
the final answer for a given multi-hop question, whereℓ denotes
the question semantic representation, and𝜙 denotes the ComplEx
scorer, respectively.
3.2 Answer Filtering Module
As the first step of our model, our Answer Filtering Module aims
to filter an entity set from all KG entities as candidate answers via
three steps. These three operational steps are illustrated in Fig. 4.
The three steps respectively relate to three sub-modules: Graph Em-
bedding Generator, Question Semantic Parser and Answer Scorer.
We introduce each sub-module followed by the system processing
order.
3.2.1 Graph Embedding Generator. Traditional solutions could not
handle many scenario problems such as Implicit Relation Reasoning
and Subgraph neighborhood Constraint . Inspired by the competitive
performance of previous work EmbedKGQA [28], we observe that
the global relation knowledge and structure information preserved
in KG embedding could be potentially used to solve these issues
efficiently and improve the overall question answering accuracy.
In this work, our used KG is also embedded in continuous low-
dimensional vector space to obtain all sparse representations for all
entities and relations existed in KG so as to simplify computations
Algorithm 1 Stepwise Answer Reasoning for RceKGQA
Require: Knowledge GraphG(𝜀,R); L length Question𝑞, denote
{w𝑗}𝐿
𝑗=1; question topic entity h in KG;
Ensure: Predicted Answer𝑒𝑎𝑛𝑠 =𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑡′∈A
𝜙(ℎ,ℓ,𝑡 ′)
1: Through ComplEx, we obtain KG relation embeddings W𝑟
and entity embeddings W𝑒 where𝑒∈𝜀 and𝑟∈R .
2: for all𝑡′ such that𝑡′ ≠ h∩𝑡′∈𝜀 do
3: ℓ =𝐴𝑡𝑡𝑛(𝐵𝑖𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀({w𝑗}𝐿
𝑗=1))
4: 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(𝑡′) =𝜙(ℎ,ℓ,𝑡 ′)
5: end for
6: Select top-N (𝑁 ∈{ 5, 10, 15}) scoring tail entities from last
step, denotes{𝑡′′}𝑁
𝑖=1
7: for all𝑡′′
𝑖 ∈{𝑡′′}𝑁
𝑖=1 do
8: Retrieval its shortest relational chain𝑟∗
𝑖 ={r𝑗}𝑀
𝑗=1, where M
is the chain length.
9: end for
10: Collect all candidates and its relational chain as a set
{[𝑡′′
𝑖 ;𝑟∗
𝑖]}𝑁
𝑖=1.
11: for all[𝑡′′
𝑖 ;𝑟∗
𝑖]∈{[ 𝑡′′
𝑖 ;𝑟∗
𝑖]}𝑁
𝑖=1 do
12: V𝑞 = 𝑓𝑐 2(𝑑𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑢(𝑓𝑐 1(𝑅𝑜𝐵𝐸𝑅𝑇𝑎({w𝑗}𝐿
𝑗=1)))))
13: V𝑟∗
𝑖 =𝐴𝑡𝑡𝑛(𝐵𝑖𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀(𝑟∗
𝑖))
14: 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(V𝑞,V𝑟∗
𝑖) = exp

−
V(2)
𝑞 −V(2)
𝑟∗
𝑖

2

15: end for
16: Select the highest scoring entity𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑡′′
𝑖
𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(V𝑞,V𝑟∗
𝑖) from
{[𝑡′′
𝑖 ;𝑟∗
𝑖]}𝑁
𝑖=1, denote as𝑒𝑎𝑛𝑠.
KG Embedding Generator
Embedded Graph
[Martin 
Lawrence]
[Gone
Fishin]
act_indirect
Who     acted      in          the     movies  directed   by       [TE]
Question Embedding Module
Question Semantic Parser
Bi-LSTM
Attention Unit
Context Semantic Embedding
Answer Scoring Module
Topic Entity [Martin Lawrence]
All Other Entities in KB
……
sort
Candidate Answer Entities
Puala Prentiss
Kim Bass
Mankiewicz
Gone Fishin
…
0.983
0.991
0.976
0.957
ScoreAnswer
Question: Who acted in the movies 
directed by [Martin Lawrence]?
Answer: Gone Fishin
Answer Filtering Module
Figure 4: Structure illustration of the Answer Filtering Mod-
ule.
on the KG. We apply the Complex Embeddings (ComplEx) [10]
approach to embed relations and entities in complex vector space.
Compared with traditional KG embedding methods likeTransE [17]
and its extensions, semantic matching models such as Holographic
Embeddings [23], ComplEx and RESCAL [24] have shown that they
can generally yield better results. All KG embeddings are initialized
randomly from uniform distributions.

[[page 5]]
Improving Embedded Knowledge Graph Multi-hop Question Answering by introducing Relational Chain Reasoning Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France
Givenℎ,𝑡 ∈𝜀 andℓ∈R , this embedding approach would provide
𝑣ℎ,𝑣ℓ,𝑣𝑡 ∈ C𝑑 for each relation triple(ℎ′,ℓ′,𝑡′), and the scoring
function is defined as follows:
𝜙(ℎ′,ℓ′,𝑡′) = Re(⟨𝑣ℎ,𝑣𝑟, ¯𝑣𝑡⟩)
= Re
 𝑑∑︁
𝑘=1
𝑣(𝑘)
ℎ 𝑣(𝑘)
𝑟 ¯𝑣(𝑘)
𝑡
!
(1)
𝜙  ℎ,ℓ′,𝑡′ > 0 ∀𝑎∈A (2)
𝜙  ℎ,ℓ′, ¯𝑡′ < 0 ∀¯𝑎 ∉A (3)
Optimization Eq. 1 aims to minimize the value for false triples
less than 0, Eq. 3 and maximizes the value for true triples greater
than 0, Eq. 2. It can be easily carried out by stochastic gradient
descent (SGD) or Adam optimizer at each training iteration.
Lastly, the original structure and relation information in the KG
are preserved in these learned vectors, which helps complete the
downstream procedures efficiently.
3.2.2 Question Semantic Parser. In this part, we introduce theQues-
tion Semantic Parser, which consists of a recurrent neural network
(bidirectional-LSTM) and extra self-attention operation, to help
represent the question’s meanings. During the inference procedure,
the Question Semantic Parser takes a question as the input and
then provides a predicted vector ˆℓ as this question’s relationship
representation between the topic and answer in KG.
As shown in Fig. 4, we build this sub-module based on the hier-
archical neural network. Firstly, we encode the𝐿 length question
{𝑡𝑗}, for𝑗 = 1,...𝐿 into a sequence of word embedding vectors{𝑣𝑗}
through our word embedding layer whose parameters are learnable
during the training procedure. The word embedding dimension is
consistent with the recurrent network’s hidden dimension. Then
we employ a single layer bidirectional LSTM to learn a forward
hidden state sequence
− →h1,− →h2,..., − →h𝐿

and a backward hidden state
sequence
← −h1,← −h2,..., ← −h𝐿

. Compared to general RNN, bidirectional
LSTM is a special RNN which mainly solves the gradient disap-
pearance and gradient explosion challenges and captures better
long-distance semantics during long sequence modeling. Our LSTM
component uses 256 as its dimension of hidden representationsℎ𝑡
and memory cells 𝑐𝑡 . It is well known that the performance of
LSTMs depends crucially on their initialization and offers a strong
starting point to facilitate model convergence, so we initialize our
bidirectional LSTM weights with Xavier [11] initialization which is
markedly superior to other random initialization methods.
Taking the forward step as an example, the next state− →h𝑗 based
on last state−−−→h𝑗−1 is computed via the following operations.
f𝑗 =𝜎

W𝑥𝑓 x𝑗+ Wℎ𝑓
−−−→h𝑗+1+ b𝑓

(4)
f𝑗 =𝜎

W𝑥𝑖 x𝑗+ Wℎ𝑖
−−−→h𝑗+1+ b𝑖

(5)
f𝑗 =𝜎

W𝑥𝑜 x𝑗+ Wℎ𝑜
−−−→h𝑗+1+ b𝑜

(6)
c𝑗 = f𝑗◦ c𝑗+1+ i𝑗 tanh

W𝑥𝑐 x𝑗+ Wℎ𝑐
− →h𝑗+1+ b𝑐

(7)
− →h𝑗 = o𝑗◦ tanh  c𝑗
 (8)
The variables𝑓𝑗,𝑖𝑗,𝑜𝑗 in the above equations are the input, forget
and output gate’s activation vectors respectively, where◦ is the cell
state vector, =𝜎 and𝑡𝑎𝑛ℎ are the hyperbolic tangent and sigmoid
functions. After the information flows through LSTM, we concate-
nate the forward− →h𝑗 and backward← −h𝑗 and obtain the combined
features h𝑗 =[− →h𝑗;← −h𝑗].
Different word tokens make different contributions to the re-
lationship semantic recognition, for example, words which are
prepositions and articles are more irrelevant for discovering ques-
tion semantics than relational demonstrators. Thus, after LSTM
we apply the self-attention mechanism to capture more valuable
features. The attention operation details are shown in Eq. 9 and 10,
given a LSTM hidden representation, a full connect layer, activation
function𝑡𝑎𝑛ℎ and softmax operation jointly generate the attention
weight𝛼𝑗 at first. Then, as shown in Eq. 10, the final attention
vector representation𝑠𝑗 which is the semantic representation of the
language question are aggregated by the weighted sum operation
of h𝑗 and𝑎𝑗 .
𝛼𝑗 = exp  𝑎𝑗

˝𝐿
𝑖=1 exp(𝑎𝑖)
𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑒 𝑎 𝑗 = tanh  w⊤
𝑎

h𝑗

+𝑏 (9)
𝑠𝑗 =
∑︁
𝑖
𝛼𝑖𝑗 h𝑖𝑗 (10)
All the weight matrices, weight vector W, and bias terms are
calculated based on the training data,i.e. LSTM gate unit weight
matrix{W𝑓, W𝑖, W𝑜} and attention weight matrix w⊤𝑎 . In this
way, we obtain the rich relationship semantics implied in natural
language questions for answer reasoning.
3.2.3 Answer Scorer. Similar to the ComplEx [10] scoring function
which depicted in Eqs. 1, 2 and 3, as shown in Eq. 11, we learn
a answer ranker 𝑅𝑎𝑛𝑘(𝑡) for each candidates t, namely Answer
Scorer to score the (topic entity, relationship semantic) pair against
all possible KG entities t∈ 𝜀 by maximizing the probabilities of
positive samples𝑡∈A and minimizing the negative sample𝑡′ ∉A.
𝑅𝑎𝑛𝑘(𝑡) =
 max(𝜙(ℎ,ℓ,𝑡)), ∀𝑡∈A
min(𝜙(ℎ,ℓ,𝑡 ′)), ∀𝑡′ ∉A (11)
Instead of simply selecting the entity with the highest score
due to its low accuracy but high recall performance, we conduct
a rough filtering by select top-n, where n∈{ 5, 10, 15} to obtain
the intermediate scored candidate entities that have a high answer
recall rate. For the inference, the Answer Scoring Module gives each
candidate a plausibility score to indicate its answer confidence and
filter out the top-n scored intermediate result which is fed into the
next step, the Relational Chain Reasoning module.
3.3 Relational Chain Reasoning Module
During the prediction result analysis, we observe that the model
performance onℎ𝑖𝑡@5 outperforms that onℎ𝑖𝑡@1 metric, which
could be due to the influence of a large number of noisy entities
number in the large-scale KG. Furthermore, since the answer is
given as the only ground-truth information, a major challenge for

[[page 6]]
Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France Weiqiang Jin and Hang Yu, et al.
multi-hop KGQA is that it usually lacks intermediate reasoning
supervision signals.
To tackle these issues, we propose an extra component for our
KGQA work, termed the Relational Chain Reasoning Module . It
aims to improve the reasoning accuracy through considering the
reasoning chain order and its relational type under weak supervised
situation.
Its training procedure is irrelevant to theAnswer Filtering Module,
but its training dataset is constructed from the Answer Filtering
Module’s prediction results. Formally, we use the trained Answer
Filtering Module to obtain the sorted scored entities{[𝑒𝑖𝑡 ;𝑠𝑖𝑡]}𝑛
𝑖=1,
{[𝑒𝑖𝑣 ;𝑠𝑖𝑣]}𝑛
𝑖=1 and{[𝑒𝑖𝑒 ;𝑠𝑖𝑒]}𝑛
𝑖=1 for the training, validating, and
testing datasets, respectively.
Then, these scored results are truncated by only reserving top-𝑛
(𝑛∈{ 5, 10, 15}) candidates. Next, for the rough filtered results in
each experimental sample, if it belongs to the correct answers, we
construct a corresponding positive sample[q;{r}𝑐
𝑖=1], in which q
denotes the question tokens and{r}𝑐
𝑖=1 is the c length shortest path
searched by the graph retrieval algorithm, and so do the negative
samples that are not inside in the correct answers.
Who acted  in the  movies  directed  by [TE] ?
Bi-LSTM
Embedded Graph
[Martin 
Lawrence]
[Gone
Fishin]
act_indirect
Attention Unit
Relational Chain Embedding
…
…
Question semantic Parser
（Roberta Transformer）
Full Connect
DropOut
Relational Chain Sequence
Similarity Score
Question: Who acted in the movies directed 
by [Martin Lawrence]?
Answer: Gone Fishin
Relational Chain Reasoning Module
Question Semantic Representation Semantic Relational Chain Representation
Full Connect
Figure 5: Structure of the designed Relational Chain Reason-
ing Module.
3.3.1 Siamese Network Based Similarity Scoring. As shown in Fig. 5,
we introduce our novel sub-module Siamese Network Based Simi-
larity Scoring, which is essentially is a Siamese network [16]. The
module’s two feature detectors aim to extract the question Eq. 12
and the relational chain semantic representations Eq. 13. They are
constructed by a pretrained transformer RoBERTa [7] to generate
question vectorV𝑞 from question𝑞 ={w𝑖}𝑁
𝑖=1 and a single-layer
bidirectional LSTM to generate relational chain vectorV𝑟 from
relational chain 𝑟∗ ={r𝑗}𝑀
𝑗=1. RoBERTa is a revolutionary self-
supervised pretraining technique that learns to predict intentionally
hidden sections of language text. After informations passes through
these two encoded networks, the semantic feature similarities Eq14
in the vector representation space are subsequently used to infer
the semantic similarity between the question and relational chain
from the topic entity to answer.
V𝑞 =𝑊⊤
2(𝑑𝑟𝑜𝑝(𝑊⊤
1(𝑅𝑜𝐵𝐸𝑅𝑇𝑎(𝑞))+ 𝑏1))+ 𝑏2 (12)
V𝑟 =𝐴𝑡𝑡𝑛(𝐵𝑖𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀(𝑟∗)) (13)
𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(V𝑞,V𝑟) = exp

−
V(2)
𝑞 −V(2)
𝑟

2

(14)
As shown in Eq. 14, we train the similarity scorer using the
stochastic gradient descent (SGD) backward propagation algorithm
under the mean-squared-error (MSE) loss function. Then we endow
our training criterion with theℓ 2 (Euclidean distance) norm metric
to avoid the model parameter distribution being highly warped.
The predicted relatedness labels to lie in [0, 1], for the positive
sample we maximize the prediction value as close as possible to
1, and the negative sample as close as possible to 0. Finally, after
sorting the scored candidates, we choose the entity which has the
highest similarity score as the final answer.
3.3.2 Question Semantic Representation. As depicted in Fig 5 left,
we use and finetune a standardRoBERTa to obtain the hidden state
lying in start token[𝐶𝐿𝑆] for our question encoders. We regard it
as the semantic signal for answer reasoning and then adopt two full
connect layers and a dropout layer to obtain a better learning capa-
bility. After the previous step, a vector representation is generated
by the last layer, and we use it to compare the space similarity with
another feature encoder, Relational Chain Representation module.
3.3.3 Relational Chain Representation. As depicted in Fig 5 right,
we provide the Relational Chain Representation module which con-
sists of a single layer bidirectional LSTM and a self-attention layer.
Given the KG relational chain embedding sequence as input, this
module learns and captures the relevant and necessary semantic
information for answering reasoning. It has a similar structure to
the Question Semantic Parser in the Answer Filtering Module, but
the token embeddings used are not initialized by random initial-
ization. Instead, we apply the pretrained KG relation embedded
representations existing in Sec 3.2.1 to embed our relational chain.
Through its forward propagation which is similar to the Ques-
tion Semantic Parser, we can obtain a question semantic vector𝑣2
which has the same dimension as relational chain vector𝑣1 for the
following similarity computation step.
4 EXPERIMENT
4.1 Datasets and Evaluation Metric
Here, we first describe the two benchmark datasets we use in this
work and then give a brief introduction of the metric ℎ𝑖𝑡@1 we
used for model evaluation.
MetaQA [29] is a large KGQA dataset which provides an original
version Vanilla and two variations. In this paper, we use the original
ones because it is designed manually. This dataset includes up to
75w QA pairs which are merely 2-hop questions. It relies on a large-
scale movie domain which contains 9 relationship types, 43234
entities and up to 135k factoid triples.
WebQuestionsSP-tiny [31] dataset is a relatively small dataset
with a total of 4736 QA pairs. This QA dataset’s available KG is a
subset of Freebase that contains all the facts that are within 2-hops
of any entity mentioned in the questions of the original WebQues-
tionsSP, which have more than 188w entities and 1000 relationship
types.

[[page 7]]
Improving Embedded Knowledge Graph Multi-hop Question Answering by introducing Relational Chain Reasoning Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France
Table 1: Statistics for dataset MetaQA and WebQuestionsSP-
tiny. MetaQA contains three subsets of different complex
question relational chain length, 1/2/3 hop MetaQA, but
WebQuestionsSP-tiny does not.
Train Dev Test
MetaQA 1-hop 208970 19947 9992
MetaQA 2-hop 231844 14872 14872
MetaQA 3-hop 227060 14274 14274
WebQSP-tiny 2848 250 1639
Metricℎ𝑖𝑡@1 is a standard assessment for measuring the ratio in
all validation samples that the highest scored entity belongs to the
correct answers. In brief, if the QA system provides the user with
a single entity and this entity is right, we then regard the correct
prediction as correct ones. This evaluating indicator is popular and
publicly recognized and it has been used in many recent KGQA
works [19, 28, 36].
4.2 Compared Methods
In our experiment, the state-of-the-art methods for comparison are
described as follows:
• EmbedKGQA [28] is a KG embedding driving method for
multi-hop KGQA which matches the pretrained entity em-
beddings with question embeddings generated from the
transformer.
• SRN [35] is an RL-based multi-hop question answering model
which conducts the QA task by extending the inference
chains on KG.
• KVMem [2] The Key-Value Memory Network first attempts
to conduct QA over incomplete KGs by augmenting it with
text. It utilizes a memory table which stores the KG facts
encoded into key-value pairs to retrieve a question-specific
subgraph for reasoning.
• GraftNet [30] is a question description-based semantic sub-
graph driving method which uses a variational graph CNN to
perform QA tasks over question-specific subgraphs contain-
ing KG facts, entities and discourses from textual corpora.
• PullNet [13] improves GraftNet on the retrieval subgraph
by introducing the graph retrieval module which utilizes
shortest path from the topic entity to answer as the additional
supervised signal.
4.3 Main Results
In this section, we compare our model with the state-of-the-art
baseline methods on two benchmarks, and the following questions
are answered:
Q1. How effective and accurate is the performance of our
model compared with other SOTA models?
Q2. Can our model really identify the implicit relations and
the indirect linked answer when there is no direct relational chain
from topic entity to answer?
4.3.1 Answer Reasoning on MetaQA. As illustrated in Table 2, the
overall experimental results on the MetaQA test set clearly demon-
strate that our proposed KGQA architecture significantly outper-
forms state-of-the-art methods on ℎ𝑖𝑡@1 metric. Specifically, ac-
cording to the result of our model’s result on 1-hop MetaQA, com-
pared to the other methods, Row1 ~5, we observe that our method’s
ℎ𝑖𝑡@1 accuracy achieves much high performance up to 98.3%,
which is an increase of 1.3% compared to GraftNet [30] and Pull-
Net [13] and an increase of 0.8% compared to EmbedKGQA [28].
The results on 3-hop MetaQA are also better than all the other com-
petitive state-of-the-art baselines. These results have shown their
effectiveness and superiority when considering the question seman-
tic and its relational chain into reasoning, which largely improves
the KGQA performance.
Model 1-hop MetaQA 2-hop MetaQA 3-hop MetaQA
EmbedKGQA 97.5 98.8 94.8
SRN 97.0 95.1 75.2
KVMem 96.2 82.7 48.9
GraftNet 97.0 94.8 77.7
PullNet 97.0 99.9 91.4
Our Model 98.3 99.7 97.9
Table 2: Experimental results on three subsets of MetaQA.
The first group of results was taken from papers on recent
methods. The values are reported using hits@1. The number
in bold and underlined number denote the best and second
best methods, respectively. This figure corresponds to Sec.
4.3.1.
4.3.2 Answer Reasoning on WebQuestionsSP-tiny. WebQuestionsSP-
tiny is a relatively small dataset for training but relies on a large-
scale KG (Freebase) whose entities’ count is greater than 10 million.
Table 3 presents the evaluation results on the WebQuestionsSP-tiny
test set, from which we can observe that our KGQA system still
performs better that its other state-of-the-art counterparts. Specifi-
cally, the last row shows that our full model achieves accuracy of up
to 70.4%ℎ𝑖𝑡@1. Even in large-scale KG and a small number of QA
dataset situations like WebQuestionsSP-tiny, our Rce-KGQA system
is still has a relatively robust and useful for handling realistic QA
tasks.
Model WebQuestionsSP-tiny hit@1
EmbedKGQA 66.6
SRN -
KVMem 46.7
GraftNet 66.4
PullNet 68.1
Our Model 70.4
Table 3: Experiment results compared with SOTA meth-
ods on WebQuestionsSP-tiny test set. All QA pairs in
WebQuestionsSP-tiny are 2-hop relational questions. The
best score is in bold and the second-best score is underlined .

[[page 8]]
Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France Weiqiang Jin and Hang Yu, et al.
4.4 Answer Reasoning for implicit relationship
discovery
As shown in Table 4, we verify our method’s ability to discover
missing implicit relationships through comparison experiments.
The KG which MetaQA uses has no missing link during the reason-
ing path because the QA question pairs are constructed upon this
KG. However, to make it become a realistic setting, we simulate an
incomplete KG by randomly removing half (with probability = 0.5)
of the factoid triples from it. We call this pruned setting half and
we call the full KG setting full in the text.
Models 2-hop MetaQA 3-hop MetaQA
full half full half
KVMem 82.7 48.4 48.9 37.6
GraftNet 94.8 69.5 77.7 66.4
PullNet 99.9 90.4 91.4 85.2
EmbedKGQA 98.8 91.8 94.8 70.3
Our Model 99.7 92.1 97.9 84.7
Table 4: Experimental results about reasoning on incom-
plete KG (ℎ𝑖𝑡@1 as a percentage). We consider two different
KG settings, full and half. Full denotes the complete KG and
half denotes a KG subset whose 50% factoid triples are ran-
domly removed.
The experiments show our method’s implicit relation discov-
ering capability substantially outperforms other state-of-the-art
methods over incomplete KG. The amount of improvement is sig-
nificant, with an increase of 43.7% compared to KVMem inℎ𝑖𝑡@1.
Furthermore, our competitive model also delivers an average 1.7%
ℎ𝑖𝑡@1 rate on 2-hop MetaQA half setting and performs well on
3-hop MetaQA half setting while PullNet still achieves the highest
ℎ𝑖𝑡@1 score.
4.5 Answer Filtering Result Analysis
To further examine whether our proposed enhancement to the
extra module Relational Chain Reasoning Module ia an advanced im-
provements, we analyse the reasoning performance of first module
Answer Filtering Module. In Table 5, as we can see that if we regard
the scored candidate entities provided by this module as the final
answer, theℎ𝑖𝑡@1 accuracy rate drops a lot compared to ℎ𝑖𝑡@5
andℎ𝑖𝑡@10. This observation indicates that the model which does
not consider relational chain order and relation type achieves very
poor performance and proves the necessity.
Furthermore, from Table 5, we can clearly observe that almost
right answers of our used datasets collectively distribute in the
top-5 of our model’s predictions. Due to this high recall rate of our
first module, the Answer Filtering Module, we think we can only rely
on a few top-scoring candidates (such as top-15, top-10, or even
top-5) to further filter the final answer more accurately. So during
our model training and inference experiments, we tried several
experimental schemes and we consider the number of top-scoring
candidates, specifically, how to select candidates to automatically
generate positive or negative samples and how to cut the top-N
candidates for the sub-module Relational Chain Reasoning Module
inference.
Dataset 𝐻𝑖𝑡 @1−𝑟 𝐻𝑖𝑡 @5−𝑟 𝐻𝑖𝑡 @10−𝑟
2-hop MetaQA 0.861 0.995 0.999
3-hop MetaQA 0.858 0.984 0.997
Table 5: Our Answer Filtering Module answer reasoning per-
formance on three different metrics ℎ𝑖𝑡@1, 5, 10. Model per-
formance on𝐻𝑖𝑡 @5 and𝐻𝑖𝑡 @10 accuracy highly outperform
which on𝐻𝑖𝑡 @1 accuracy.
4.6 Ablation Study
To better understand and gain a deep insight into our model de-
sign, we also perform ablation experiments to systematically in-
vestigate the impact and contributions of different components.
RceKGQA−𝑟 , RceKGQA−𝑎 and RceKGQA−𝑏 are variants of our
full model RceKGQA. Note that for our ablated experiments, we
remove one component each time. Here we briefly introduce these
variants for the ablated experiments.
• RceKGQA−𝑟 is removed from the Relational Chain Reason-
ing module and is the highest scoring entity provided by the
Answer Filtering Module as the final answer.
• RceKGQA−𝑎 is removed from all the self-attention actions
from the model.
• RceKGQA−𝑏 only replaces RoBERTa with LSTM in the ques-
tion semantic representation part of the Relational Chain
Reasoning module.
• RceKGQA is the full model introduced in this paper.
In this section, the following questions are answered:
Q1. How much does the Relational Chain Reasoning Module
help for our model’s reasoning accuracy?
Q2. Can the attention mechanism really help increase our
model’s overall performance?
Q3. Is the effectiveness of our method due to the use ofRoBERTa
in the Relational Chain Reasoning module?
According to the result comparison between RceKGQA and its
variant RceKGQA−𝑟 , we can clearly conclude that removing the
Relational Chain Reasoning Module from the proposed model has a
huge impact on the results.
The performance gap between RceKGQA−𝑟 which is shown in
Row 2 and our full model shown in Row1 indicates that the seman-
tic relational chain factor plays a pivotal role in answer reasoning,
which incorporates relational chain order and relationship type to
provide more accurate answers for the terminal user.
As shown in Row 3, when our full model is compared with
RceKGQA−𝑎, we can see an average 3.5% performance drop across
theℎ𝑖𝑡@1 metric if the self-attention components are removed,
which demonstrates the importance of the self-attention mech-
anism used in our method, as it effectively helps with the final
answer prediction. RceKGQA−𝑟, which is shown in Row 4, only
loses 1.6%ℎ𝑖𝑡@1 accuracy compared with our full model, which
replaces RoBERTa with BiLSTM, and demonstrates that the usage
of the transformer is not a major factor in increasing the overall
model performance.
The above ablated statistics confirm that all three components
introduced for handling the multi-hop relation question answering
contribute to the overall model performance.

[[page 9]]
Improving Embedded Knowledge Graph Multi-hop Question Answering by introducing Relational Chain Reasoning Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France
Model 1-hop MetaQA 2-hop MetaQA 3-hop MetaQA
RceKGQA 98.3 99.7 97.9
RceKGQA−𝑟 85.8 86.1 84.8
RceKGQA−𝑎 96.1 95.9 93.4
RceKGQA−𝑏 95.9 98.2 95.6
Table 6: Ablation study statistical results for RceKGQA and
its three variants (𝐻𝑖𝑡 @1 by percentage).
5 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE PERSPECTIVE
In this work, we introduce an elaborate KG embedding based
pipeline approach for the multi-hop KGQA task, termed Relational
Chain-based Embedded KGQA. Novel techniques are proposed to
effectively utilize QA relational chain parsing to identify the se-
mantics more accurately and leverage the structure information
preserved in KG embedding to reason the implicit answer indi-
rectly. Our comprehensive empirical results on two benchmarks
demonstrates that our method outperforms many of its state-of-
the-art counterparts. The experimental comparison between our
approach and its ablated variants also verifies that the proposed
model components contribute to the answer reasoning result. We
believe KGQA will continue to be an attractive and promising re-
search direction with realistic industrial and domestic scenarios,
such as Intelligent Recommendation, Smart Personal Assistant, Big
Data Mining Services, and Automatic Customer Services.
In the future, we plan to study the following major problems. (i)
To support real-world dynamic application scenarios, the KGQA
application is always updated quickly and inevitably accmulates
new and immense external knowledge in real time. How can we
augment our available KG’s knowledge reserve automatically and
incrementally to expand our system’s knowledge coverage? (ii) This
model is trained on relatively small QA datasets under weak super-
vision without external prior knowledge. How can we introduce
external knowledge such as knowledge from web pages and other
open-domain KGs to improve our question answering system’s
performance?
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was carried out during the first author’s master time at
Shanghai University. This work is also partially supported by an
anonymous Natural Research Foundation. We would like to thank
Hang Yu for providing helpful discussions and valuable recommen-
dations.
REFERENCES
[1] Riedewald M. et al Abujabal A, Yahya M. 2017. Automated Template Generation
for Question Answering over Knowledge Graphs. In Proceedings of the 26th
international conference on world wide web . International Conference on World
Wide Web, 1191–1200.
[2] Adam Fisch Jesse Dodge Amir-Hossein Karimi Alexander H. Miller. [n.d.]. Key-
Value Memory Networks for Directly Reading Documents. EMNLP, 249–256.
[3] Haussmann E. et al Bast H. 2015. More Accurate Question Answering on Freebase.
In Proceedings of the 24th ACM International on Conference on Information and
Knowledge Management. 1431–1440.
[4] Jonathan Berant, Andrew Chou, Roy Frostig, and Percy Liang. 2013. Semantic
Parsing on Freebase from Question-Answer Pairs. EMNLP 2013, 1533–1544.
[5] Yu Chen, Ananya Subburathinam, Ching-Hua Chen, and Mohammed J. Zaki. 2021.
Personalized Food Recommendation as Constrained Question Answering over a
Large-scale Food Knowledge Graph. Proceedings of the 14th ACM International
Conference on Web Search and Data Mining (Mar 2021).
[6] Li Dong, Furu Wei, Ming Zhou, and Ke Xu. 2015. Question Answering over
Freebase with Multi-Column Convolutional Neural Networks. Association for
Computational Linguistics, Beijing, China, 260–269.
[7] Yinhan Liu Myle Ott Naman Goyal Jingfei Du et. al. 2019. A Robustly Optimized
Bert Pretraining Approach: Roberta. PMLR. arXiv:1907.11692
[8] AZ. Wang J. Zhang J. Feng and Z. Chen. 2014. Knowledge Graph Embedding by
Translating on Hyperplanes. In 28th AAAI. 1112–1119.
[9] Bin Fu, Yunqi Qiu, Chengguang Tang, Yang Li, Haiyang Yu, and Jian Sun. 2020. A
Survey on Complex Question Answering over Knowledge Base: Recent Advances
and Challenges. CoRR (2020). arXiv:2007.13069
[10] Theo Trouillon Johannes Welbl Sebastian Riedel Eric Gaussier and Guillaume
Bouchard. 2016. Complex Embeddings for Simple Link Prediction. InInternational
Conference on Machine Learning . 2071–2080.
[11] Xavier Glorot and Yoshua Bengio. 2010. Understanding The Difficulty of Training
Deep Feedforward Neural Networks. InProceedings of the Thirteenth International
Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics , Vol. 9. PMLR, 249–256.
[12] Yu Gu, Sue Kase, Michelle Vanni, Brian Sadler, Percy Liang, Xifeng Yan, and Yu Su.
2021. Beyond I.I.D.: Three Levels of Generalization for Question Answering on
Knowledge Bases. In Proceedings of the Web Conference 2021 (Ljubljana, Slovenia)
(WWW ’21). Association for Computing Machinery, 3477–3488.
[13] Tania Bedrax-Weiss Haitian Sun and William W. Cohen. 2019. PullNet: Open
Domain Question Answering with Iterative Retrieval on Knowledge Bases and
Text. EMNLP, 474–482.
[14] Gaole He, Yunshi Lan, Jing Jiang, Wayne Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2021.
Improving Multi-hop Knowledge Base Question Answering by Learning Interme-
diate Supervision Signals. Proceedings of the 14th ACM International Conference
on Web Search and Data Mining (Mar 2021).
[15] Sarthak Jain. 2016. Question Answering over Knowledge-base using Factual
Memory Networks. In NAACL.
[16] Aditya Thyagarajan Jonas Mueller. 2016. Siamese Recurrent Architectures for
Learning Sentence Similarity. In AAAI. Proceedings of the Thirtieth AAAI Con-
ference on Artificial Intelligence, 2786–2792.
[17] A.Bordes N.Usunier A.Garcla-Duran J.Weston and O.Yakhnenko. 2013. Trans-
lating Embeddings for Modeling Multi-relational Data. In Proc. Adv. Neural Inf.
Process. 2787–2795.
[18] Yunshi Lan, Gaole He, Jinhao Jiang, Jing Jiang, Wayne Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen.
2021. A Survey on Complex Knowledge Base Question Answering: Methods,
Challenges and Solutions. CoRR (2021). arXiv:2105.11644
[19] Yunshi LAN and Jing JIANG. 2020. Query Graph Generation for Answering
Multi-hop Complex Questions from Knowledge Bases. , 969-974 pages.
[20] Yunshi Lan, Shuohang Wang, and Jing Jiang. 2019. Knowledge Base Question
Answering With a Matching-Aggregation Model and Question-Specific Contex-
tual Relations. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing
27, 10 (2019), 1629–1638.
[21] Yunshi Lan, Shuohang Wang, and Jing Jiang. 2019. Knowledge Base Question
Answering with Topic Units. In IJCAI.
[22] Yingting Li. 2021. Counterfactual-Augmented Data for Multi-Hop Knowledge
Base Question Answering. In Companion Proceedings of the Web Conference 2021
(WWW ’21). Association for Computing Machinery, 719–720.
[23] L. Rosasco M. Nickel and T. Poggio. 2016. Holographic Embeddings of Knowledge
Graphs. In in Proc. 30th AAAI Conf 2016 . 1955–1961.
[24] V. Tresp M. Nickel and H.-P. Kriegel. 2011. A three-way Model for Collective
Learning on Multi-relational Data. In Proc. 28th Int Conf . 809–816.
[25] Do-Gil Lee Min-Chul Yang and HaeChang Rim. 2015. Knowledge-based Ques-
tion Answering using the Semantic Embedding Space. In Expert Systems with
Applications. 9086–9104.
[26] Deepak Nathani, Jatin Chauhan, Charu Sharma, and Manohar Kaul. 2019. Learn-
ing Attention-based Embeddings for Relation Prediction in Knowledge Graphs. In
Proceedings of the 57th Conference of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
ACL 2019. 4710–4723.
[27] Michael Petrochuk and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2018. SimpleQuestions Nearly Solved:
A New Upperbound and Baseline Approach. CoRR (2018).
[28] Apoorv Saxena, Aditay Tripathi, and Partha Talukdar. 2020. Improving Multi-hop
Question Answering over Knowledge Graphs using Knowledge Base Embeddings.
4498–4507.
[29] Yuyu Zhang Hanjun Dai Zornitsa Kozareva Alexander J Smola and Le Song.
2018. Variational Reasoning for Question Answering with Knowledge Grap. In
Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence . 2787–2795.
[30] Haitian Sun, Bhuwan Dhingra, Manzil Zaheer, Kathryn Mazaitis, Ruslan Salakhut-
dinov, and William W. Cohen. 2018. Open Domain Question Answering Using
Early Fusion of Knowledge Bases and Text. arXiv:1809.00782 [cs.CL]
[31] Wen tau Yih Matthew Richardson Christopher Meek Ming-Wei Chang and Jina
Suh. 2016. The Value of Semantic Parse Labeling for Knowledge Base Question
Answering. In ACL. 2787–2795.
[32] Dingcheng Li Xiao Huang, Jingyuan Zhang and Ping Li. 2019. Knowledge
Graph Embedding Based Question Answering. Proceedings of the 13th ACM

[[page 10]]
Lyon ’22, February 03–05, 2022, Lyon, France Weiqiang Jin and Hang Yu, et al.
International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining, 105–113.
[33] Rui Yan, Weiheng Liao, Jianwei Cui, Hailei Zhang, Yichuan Hu, and Dongyan
Zhao. 2021. Multilingual COVID-QA: Learning towards Global Information
Sharing via Web Question Answering in Multiple Languages. In Proceedings of
the Web Conference 2021 (WWW ’21) . Association for Computing Machinery,
2590–2600.
[34] Hao Yanchao, Zhang Yuanzhe, Liu Kang, and Zhao Jun. 2017. An End-to-End
Model for Question Answering over Knowledge Base with Cross-Attention Com-
bining Global Knowledge. Association for Computational Linguistics, 221–231.
[35] Yuanzhuo Wang Xiaolong Jin Yunqi Qiu and Kun Zhang. 2020. Stepwise Reason-
ing for Multi-Relation Question Answering over Knowledge Graph with Weak
Supervision. WSDM, 474–482.
[36] Chih-Hung Chang Zi-Yuan Chen and Lun-Wei Ku. 2019. UHop: An Unrestricted-
hop Relation Extraction Framework for Knowledge-based Question Answering.
In NAACL.