[[page 1]]
Dynamic Semantic Graph Construction and Reasoning for
Explainable Multi-hop Science Question Answering∗
Weiwen Xu, Huihui Zhang, Deng Cai and Wai Lam
The Chinese University of Hong Kong
{wwxu,hhzhang,wlam}@se.cuhk.edu.hk
thisisjcykcd@gmail.com
Abstract
Knowledge retrieval and reasoning are two
key stages in multi-hop question answering
(QA) at web scale. Existing approaches suf-
fer from low conﬁdence when retrieving evi-
dence facts to ﬁll the knowledge gap and lack
transparent reasoning process. In this paper,
we propose a new framework to exploit more
valid facts while obtaining explainability for
multi-hop QA by dynamically constructing a
semantic graph and reasoning over it. We em-
ploy Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR)
as semantic graph representation. Our frame-
work contains three new ideas: (a) AMR-SG,
an AMR-based Semantic Graph, constructed
by candidate fact AMRs to uncover any hop
relations among question, answer and multi-
ple facts. (b) A novel path-based fact an-
alytics approach exploiting AMR-SG to ex-
tract active facts from a large fact pool to an-
swer questions. (c) A fact-level relation mod-
eling leveraging graph convolution network
(GCN) to guide the reasoning process. Re-
sults on two scientiﬁc multi-hop QA datasets
show that we can surpass recent approaches
including those using additional knowledge
graphs while maintaining high explainability
on OpenBookQA and achieve a new state-of-
the-art result on ARC-Challenge in a computa-
tionally practicable setting.
1 Introduction
Multi-hop QA is one of the most challenging tasks
that beneﬁts from explainability as it mimics the
human question answering setting, where multi-
hop QA requires both the collection of information
from large external knowledge resources and the
aggregation of retrieved facts to answer complex
natural language questions (Yang et al., 2018).
∗ The work described in this paper is substantially sup-
ported by a grant from the Research Grant Council of the
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China (Project
Code: 14204418).
Question:           Predators eat __. 
Answer Choice:  bunnies
Hypothesis:        Predators eat bunnies.
Fact 1:                A bunny is a small rabbit.
Fact 2:                Most predators eat rabbits.
eat-01
predator bunny
ARG0 ARG1
Rarabbit-01
small
bunny
mod
domain
most
quant
eat-01
predator Rarabbit-01
ARG0 ARG1
Figure 1: The AMR of the hypothesis (black), Fact 1
and Fact 2. A hypothesis is a statement derived from
a question and a choice. The hypothesis AMR can be
inferred by relevant fact AMRs.
Currently, external knowledge is mostly stored
in two forms – textual and graph structure (e.g.
Knowledge Graph (KG)). Textual corpora contain
rich and diverse evidence facts, which are ideal
knowledge resources for multi-hop QA. Especially
with the success of pretrained models (Devlin et al.,
2019; Liu et al., 2019; Lan et al., 2019), we can
get powerful representations for such textual facts.
However, retrieving relevant and useful facts to ﬁll
the knowledge gap for inferring the answer is still
a challenging problem. In addition, the reasoning
process over the facts is hidden by the unexplain-
able neural network, which hinders the deployment
of real-life applications. On the other hand, KG
is able to provide structural clues about relevant
entities for explainable predictions (Feng et al.,
arXiv:2105.11776v1  [cs.CL]  25 May 2021

[[page 2]]
2020; Saxena et al., 2020; Xu et al., 2020). But it
is known to suffer from sparsity, where complex
question clues are unlikely to be covered by the
closed-form relations in KG (Zhao et al., 2020;
Zhang et al., 2020b). Another issue is that KG
requires large human labor and is easy to become
outdated if not maintained timely.
To take advantages of both rich textual corpora
and explicit graph structure and make it compatible
to all textual knowledge, we explore the usefulness
of Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) as a
graph annotation to a textual fact. AMR (Banarescu
et al., 2013) is a semantic formalism that represents
the meaning of a sentence into a rooted, directed
graph. Figure 1 shows some examples of AMR
graphs, where nodes represent concepts and edges
represent the relations. Unlike other semantic role
labeling that only considers the relations between
predicates and their arguments (Song et al., 2019),
the aim of AMR is to capture every meaningful con-
tent in high-level abstraction while removing away
inﬂections and function words in a sentence. As a
result, AMR allows us to explore textual facts and
simultaneously attributes them with explicit graph
structure for explainable fact quality assessment
and reasoning.
In this paper, we propose a novel framework
that incorporates AMR to make explainable knowl-
edge retrieval and reasoning for multi-hop QA. Our
framework works on textual knowledge, which is
easy to obtain and allows us to get informative
facts. The introduced AMR serves as a bridge that
enables an explicit reasoning process over a graph
structure among questions, answers and relevant
facts. As exempliﬁed in Figure 1, a hypothesis is
ﬁrst derived from a question and an answer choice.
We then parse the hypothesis and a large number
of facts to corresponding AMRs. After that, we
dynamically construct AMR-SG for each question-
choice pair by merging the AMRs of its hypothe-
sis and relevant facts. Unlike previous works on
multi-hop QA that rely on existing KGs to ﬁnd rela-
tions among entities (Wang et al., 2020; Feng et al.,
2020), our proposed AMR-SG is dynamically con-
structed, which reveals intrinsic relations of facts
and can naturally form any-hop connections. After
construction, we analyze all connected paths start-
ing from the question to the answer on AMR-SG.
We focus the consideration of facts on those paths
because they together connect the question with
the answer, indicating their active roles in ﬁlling
the knowledge gap. The connections of facts on
AMR-SG can be further used as the supervision
for downstream reasoning. Therefore, we adopt
GCN (Kipf and Welling, 2017) to model the fact-
level information passing.
Experimental results demonstrate that our ap-
proach outperforms previous approaches that use
additional KGs. It obtains 81.6 accuracy on Open-
BookQA (Mihaylov et al., 2018), and pushes the
state-of-the-art result on ARC-Challenge (Clark
et al., 2018) to 68.94 in a computationally practica-
ble setting.
2 Related Work
Multi-hop QA with External Resource. De-
spite the success of pretrained model in most Natu-
ral Language Processing (NLP) tasks, it performs
poorly in multi-hop QA, where some information
is missing to answer questions (Zhu et al., 2021b).
Textual corpora contain rich and diverse knowl-
edge, which is likely to cover the clues to answer
complex questions. Banerjee et al. (2019) demon-
strate some carefully designed queries can effec-
tively retrieve relevant facts. Yadav et al. (2019);
Deng et al. (2020) extract groups of evidence facts
considering the relevance, overlap and coverage,
but such method requires exponential computation
in the retrieval step. Feldman and El-Yaniv (2019);
Yadav et al. (2020) construct a fact chain by it-
eratively reformulating the query to focus on the
missing information. However, the fact chain of-
ten grows obliquely as a result of the failure of
ﬁrst fact retrieval, making the QA model brittle.
As some recent QA datasets (Yang et al., 2018;
Mihaylov et al., 2018; Khot et al., 2020) annotate
a gold evidence fact for each question, it enables
training supervised classiﬁer to identify the correct
fact driven by a query (Nie et al., 2019; Qiu et al.,
2019; Tu et al., 2020; Banerjee and Baral, 2020).
Min et al. (2018) take a further step to jointly pre-
dict the answer span and select evidence facts in a
uniﬁed model. Though these supervised retrievers
have achieved impressive improvement, they heav-
ily rely on the annotated gold facts, which are not
always available in real-world applications.
In addition, previous works also explore the ef-
fectiveness of structured knowledge by either en-
coding the nodes (Yang and Mitchell, 2017; Wang
et al., 2019), triples (Mihaylov and Frank, 2018;
Wang et al., 2020), paths (Lin et al., 2019; Lei et al.,
2020) or tabular (Zhu et al., 2021a) to capture the

[[page 3]]
Question 
Answer Choice
Hypothesis
Generation
Fact Extraction
(𝑄𝑄𝑖𝑖, 𝐶𝐶𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖)
(𝐻𝐻𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖)
( �𝐹𝐹)
𝐻𝐻𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 SEPCLS …𝐹𝐹1 𝐹𝐹𝑛𝑛
(𝐻𝐻𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖, 𝐹𝐹)
Textual Corpus
GCN(𝐴𝐴)
Fact
Retrieval
Semantic Graph 
Construction & Analytics
Hypothesis 
Assessment
Classification
hypothesis
fact1
fact2
fact3
fact4
Active Fact-level
Connection Graph
Question nodes
Choice nodes
AMR-SG
GCN
… K Layers
𝜎𝜎
RoBERTa
𝑥𝑥𝐻𝐻
𝐾𝐾 𝑥𝑥𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐
𝑥𝑥𝐻𝐻 𝑥𝑥1 𝑥𝑥2 𝑥𝑥3
Max Pooling
Figure 2: Overall architecture of our proposed model. The black dash lines in AMR-SG indicate that we cut the
connection between question nodes and choice nodes. The pink arrows indicate two paths that can be spotted
in AMR-SG. Facts with red background are active facts detected. The dashed node Active Fact-level Connection
Graph indicates fact4 is not considered as a valid node as it is not an active fact.
missing information. Other works avoid the spar-
sity of KGs by constructing KGs directly from tex-
tual knowledge. OpenIE (Saha and Mausam, 2018)
is widely used in knowledge base question answer-
ing to extract entity-relation triples (Bosselut et al.,
2019; Zhao et al., 2020; Deng et al., 2019). How-
ever, OpenIE favors precision over recall, which
is not necessarily effective to form connections
among diverse evidence facts for multi-hop QA.
Wikipedia contains internal hyperlinks, which are
effective to build graph connections from unstruc-
tured articles (Asai et al., 2020; Liu et al., 2020).
However, such hyperlinks are not available in most
textual corpora.
AMR. Recent success in AMR research makes it
possible to beneﬁt downstream tasks, such as sum-
marization (Takase et al., 2016; Dohare et al., 2017;
Liao et al., 2018), event detection (Li et al., 2015)
and machine translation (Song et al., 2019). In the
domain of QA, AMR has been used to form logic
queries and conduct symbolic reasoning (Mitra and
Baral, 2016; Kapanipathi et al., 2020). Comparing
to name entity (Zhong et al., 2020) or other cross-
sentence annotations (Lei et al., 2018; Zhang et al.,
2020a), we use AMR to build our semantic graph
because it is align-free and can be easily adapted
to powerful pretrained models.
3 Framework Description
In this paper, we consider the multi-hop QA in the
form of multi-choice, where a questionQi is pro-
vided withJ answer choicesCij,j ∈{ 1, 2,...,J}.
As shown in Figure 2, our framework consists of
three components: (1) a Fact Retrieval component
to retrieve evidence facts ˆF ={ ˆF 1,..., ˆFm}1 for
each question-choice pair from a large textual cor-
pus; (2) a Semantic Graph Construction & An-
alytics component that dynamically constructs a
semantic graph, named AMR-SG, to select active
factsF ={F 1,...,F n} from ˆF and capture their
relationsA; and (3) a Hypothesis Assessment com-
ponent that classiﬁes whether the question-choice
is correct, given the active facts and their relations
in (2).
3.1 Fact Retrieval
Hypothesis Generation. As shown in Figure 2,
we ﬁrst generate a hypothesisHij for theith ques-
tion and the jth choice. A hypothesis is a com-
pleted statement derived from each question-choice
pair. Comparing to simply concatenating the ques-
tion and the choice, a hypothesis contains less
meaningless words and maintain a good grammati-
cal structure, which can avoid retrieving noisy facts
and allow AMR parser to generate high-quality
AMR graphs. We generate hypotheses by the rule-
based model of Demszky et al. (2018). For some
unsolvable cases, we directly concatenate the ques-
tion and the choice. We apply this process for all
training, develop and test sets.
1We omit the subscript ij for simplicity.

[[page 4]]
Fact Extraction. We retrieve a pool of evidence
facts ˆF for each hypothesis separately using Elas-
ticsearch (Gormley and Tong, 2015). We set a large
sizem of the fact pool to cover as many valid facts
as possible.
3.2 Semantic Graph Construction &
Analytics
Active facts F are facts that really ﬁll the knowl-
edge gap between question and choice. The ac-
tiveness of a fact cannot be simply determined by
comparing it with the hypothesis, as multi-hop QA
requires multiple facts to complete the reasoning
chain. Therefore, we need to ﬁlter out facts that
are just partially related and focus on the consider-
ation of active facts and their roles in the reason-
ing chain. In this component, we ﬁrst construct
AMR-SG. Then, we propose a path-based analytics
approach to extract active facts and construct an
Active Fact-level Connection Graphto capture their
relations with the question and the answer choice.
3.2.1 AMR-SG Construction
As the nodes of AMR are high-level abstraction
of concepts conveyed in the corresponding textual
fact, two AMRs sharing the same node indicate
that they concern about the same concept, which
shows their correlation. This motivates us to con-
struct AMR-SG, shown in Figure 2, to represent
the relations of the corresponding hypothesis and
evidence facts for each question-choice pair.
We leverage the state-of-the-art AMR
parser (Cai and Lam, 2020) to generate AMR
G ={GH,G 1,...,G m} for a hypothesis and all
facts in the corresponding fact pool, where GH,
Gi are the AMR of the hypothesis and the ith
fact respectively. AMR is also a directed and
edge-labeled graph, which implies information
speciﬁed in the edge is propagated in one pre-
deﬁned direction. However, such inner-AMR
(edge labels and directions) information does not
contribute to inter-AMR relations. Therefore, we
only care about if there exists an edge between two
nodes but ignore the edge labels and directions.
During construction, we regardGH as the start
point of AMR-SG. Then, we incrementally ﬁnd one
fact AMR in the fact pool sharing some nodes
with it and add this fact AMR onto it by merg-
ing the shared nodes. The merging operation
stops when no AMR can be added onto AMR-SG
or the fact pool is empty. In fact, as shown
in Figure 2, we do not change the architecture
of each individual AMR, but reuse some shared
nodes as the nodes in AMR-SG. Note that, some
nodes are over-general, which are not appropri-
ate to connect two AMRs (e.g. (p/planet
:name(n/name :op1"Earth")) , the node
n/name is an over-general concept). Fortunately,
such over-general nodes always have non-node at-
tributes (e.g. Earth of n/name) that shows the
speciﬁc referent. Therefore, we replace the nodes
with their non-node attributes if any to address this
issue.
3.2.2 Path-based Analytics
Current multi-hop QA models are hindered by the
quality of retrieved facts (Banerjee et al., 2019).
We address this issue by a path-based analytics
approach to guarantee the selected facts having a
positive effect to answer the question.
As shown in Figure 2, AMR-SG reveals any-hop
relations of the hypothesis and all facts. Completed
paths can be spotted out of GH to connect the
question nodes with the choice nodes by passing
through multiple facts. These facts, which together
provide the missing knowledge to maintain com-
plete reasoning chains, are active facts that we want
to extract.
Speciﬁcally, we split the nodes of GH into
question nodesQH and choice nodesCH. Ques-
tion nodes represent the concepts extracted in the
question text. As one question is provided with
J choices, where we can generate J hypothesis
AMRs. We take the shared nodes of these AMRs
asQH, while the remaining asCH:
QH
ij =∩J
j=1{v|v∈GH
ij} (1)
CH
ij ={v|v∈GH
ij,v /∈QH
ij},j = 1,...,J (2)
We cut the edges betweenQH andCH to guaran-
tee the paths are spotted outsideGH. Then we ap-
ply depth-ﬁrst search on AMR-SG to ﬁnd all paths
that connect at least one question node and one
choice node, including the path that does not have
a minimum length (e.g. the path passing through
fact3 in Figure 2). All facts that the paths pass
through (one node in and another node out) are
considered as active facts. This is because we try
to cover more facts as long as they do not devi-
ate from the correct reasoning direction to provide
enough information for QA model.
In addition, the any-hop relations of the hypoth-
esis and active facts in AMR-SG can be used for a
hypothesis to precisely aggregate knowledge from

[[page 5]]
relevant facts to reduce ambiguity during the rea-
soning process. Therefore, we construct an Active
Fact-level Connection Graphfrom AMR-SG to cap-
ture such relations among the hypothesis and all
active facts. As shown in Figure 2, each node in
Active Fact-level Connection Graph is either the
hypothesis or an active fact. We draw an edge be-
tween two facts (include hypothesis) if they share
one concept node in AMR-SG.
3.3 Hypothesis Assessment with Fact-level
Reasoning
As shown in Figure 2, we concatenate the hypoth-
esis with all active facts, where [SEP] token is
inserted between the two texts and [CLS] is put
at the beginning of the sequence. We feed the
whole sequence into a pretrained model based on
RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) architecture to get the
hidden representation of each token.
Then, Active Fact-level Connection Graph is
used as an additional supervision in fact-level mod-
eling to guide the reasoning process. Formally, let
sH
1:lH∈ RlH ×d,si
1:li∈ Rli×d be the hidden repre-
sentations of the hypothesis and theith active fact
respectively, wherelH,li denote the length andd is
the dimension of the representation. A max pooling
layer is applied over these hidden representations
to get the node representations respectively:
xH = MaxPool(sH
1:lH)∈ R1×d
xi = MaxPool(si
1:li)∈ R1×d,i = 1,...,n (3)
The connections of hypothesis ( 0th) and active
facts in Active Fact-level Connection Graph can be
viewed as an adjacency matrixA∈ R(n+1)×(n+1),
where
Aij =
{ 1 ifFi is connected withFj
0 otherwise (4)
As there is no edge information in the graph, a
simple GCN is enough to model the knowledge
fusion among the hypothesis and multiple active
facts in the reasoning process. We also introduce
multi-head mechanism (Vaswani et al., 2017) to
stabilize the learning of different knowledge:
X (k) = [head(k)
1 :... :head(k)
h ] (5)
where [:] denotes concatenation operation, X (k)
is the node states at the kth layer, X (0) =
[xH;x1;...;xn], [; ] denotes the sequential concate-
nation operation, headi is the ith head. Speciﬁ-
cally, we compute the nodes states by aggregating
Train Dev Test
OpenBookQA 4957 500 500
ARC-Challenge 8992 299 1172
Table 1: Number of instances in each dataset.
knowledge from their neighboring nodes in each
layer:
head(k)
i = ReLU(ΛX (k−1)W (k)
i ) (6)
whereW (k)
i ∈ Rd×(d/h) is the projection matrix of
headi at thekth layer,h is the head number. Λ is
the normalization constant to avoid scale changing:
Λ =D−1/2AD−1/2
Dii =∑
jAij
(7)
After that, a σ gate is applied to calculate how
much knowledge can be propagated to score the
question-choice pair:
λ =σ(Wλ[xcls :x(K)
H ] +bλ) (8)
s(q,a ) =Wo(λx(K)
H + (1−λ)xcls) +bo (9)
whereWλ∈ R1×2d,Wo∈ Rd×d,bλ,bo are the
parameters. We get the ﬁnal probability by normal-
ize all question-choice pairs with softmax.
4 Experiments
4.1 Datasets
We evaluate our approach on two multi-choice
multi-hop QA datasets: ARC-Challenge (Clark
et al., 2018) and OpenBookQA (Mihaylov et al.,
2018). The textual corpus we use for both datsets
is ARC Corpus (Clark et al., 2018), which con-
tains about 14M science facts. OpenBookQA and
ARC-Challenge have their leaderboards with train,
develop and test sets publicly available. we fol-
low AllenAI (2019) to combine the training set of
OpenBookQA (4957), ARC-Easy (2251), ARC-
Challenge (1119) and RegLivEnv (665) as the ﬁnal
training set of ARC-Challenge task. The data splits
is shown in Table 1.
For ARC-Challenge, we retrieve 100 facts to
form the fact pool. Based on this, we select up to
20 active facts using our approach as the context
for each question-choice pair.2 OpenBookQA pro-
vides an accompanying open-book of 1326 science
2We can only reproduce the results similar to AllenAI
(2019) using 20 facts as the context.

[[page 6]]
facts, which are highly related to the questions in
this dataset. Therefore, for OpenBookQA, we re-
trieve 10 facts from the open-book and another 90
facts from ARC Corpus, forming the 100 facts in
the fact pool. We then select up to 15 active facts
using our approach as the context.
4.2 Implementation
We implement our approach on two pretrained
models: RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) and Aris-
toRoBERTa (AllenAI, 2019). AristoRoBERTa
employs the RoBERTa architecture but uses
RACE (Lai et al., 2017) to ﬁrst ﬁne-tune the
RoBERTa model. We prepare active facts as the
context to further ﬁne-tune the model with the tar-
get dataset. For OpenBookQA, we continue to
ﬁne-tune the QA model following the same proce-
dure as AllenAI (2019), where the initial learning
rate is 2e-5, the batch size is 12 and the max se-
quence length is 256. For ARC-Challenge, the
initial learning rate, the batch size and the max se-
quence length are 1e-5, 6, and 416 respectively. We
use grid search to ﬁnd optimal hyper-parameters,
where the learning rate is chosen from{5e-6, 1e-
5, 2e-5}, the batch size is chosen from {4, 6, 8,
12, 16}. The number of GCN layer K is chosen
from{1,2,3,4}, while the head number h is the
RoBERTa-Large default value.3
We introduce 6M parameters of the fact-level rea-
soning module in addition to 355M of RoBERTa-
Large. We run all experiments on one TITAN RTX
card, which takes about 1 hour and 3 hours to
complete the training of OpenBookQA and ARC-
Challenge respectively.
4.3 Comparison Methods
We compare with recent existing methods that
make use of similar power of pretrained models
in order to conduct a fair comparison. These in-
clude the baseline AristoRoBERTaV7 (AllenAI,
2019) ﬁnetuned on top of AristoRoBERTa, KF-
SIR (Banerjee and Baral, 2020) that exploits the
knowledge fusion among facts, FreeLB (Zhu et al.,
2020) that tackles the robustness issue and another
three methods leveraging an additional knowledge
graph (Speer et al., 2017) in addition to the tex-
tual knowledge: PG (Wang et al., 2020), MH-
GRN (Feng et al., 2020), AlBERT + KB. PG(albert
+ gpt2, roberta + gpt2) are two implementations
3Our code is available at: https://github.com/
wwxu21/AMR-SG
Methods Model
Architecture
Additional
KG
Test
Acc.
PG albert + gpt2 ✓ 81.8
PG roberta + gpt2 ✓ 80.2
AlBERT + KB albert ✓ 81.0
MHGRN roberta ✓ 80.6
KF-SIR roberta × 80.0
AristoRoBERTaV7 roberta × 77.8
+ AMR-SG-Full roberta × 81.6
Table 2: Test accuracy on OpenBookQA. Methods us-
ing additional KG are ticked.
with different pretrained model architectures (Liu
et al., 2019; Lan et al., 2019; Radford et al., 2019),
where the latter is more fair to compare with us.
5 Results
5.1 Main Results
OpenBookQA. The test set accuracy is shown in
Table 2. AMR-SG-Full is our full model based on
AristoRoBERTa. Results show that AMR-SG-Full
can surpass models leveraging additional KG. It
demonstrates that the fundamental improvement of
AMR-SG-Full comes from the knowledge mining
of the textual corpus. However, such knowledge
resource has not been fully investigated by exist-
ing methods and contains richer and more diverse
evidence facts than KGs. We do not compare with
UniﬁedQA (Khashabi et al., 2020) and T5 3B (Raf-
fel et al., 2020) as they rely on extremely large
pretrained models (at least 3B parameters), which
are not fair for comparison.
ARC-Challenge. We also implement AMR-SG-
Full on another difﬁcult multi-hop QA dataset:
ARC-Challenge. It consists of the questions only
answered incorrectly by both a retrieval-based algo-
rithm and a word co-occurrence algorithm (Clark
et al., 2018), which theoretically is not friendly to
our approach. As shown in Table 3, we can still
obtain 2.47 accuracy improvement comparing to
AristoRoBERTaV7 and achieve a new state-of-the-
art performance in a computationally practicable
setting.
5.2 Ablation Study
We conduct ablation study by incrementally adding
each component of AMR-SG-Full to investigate its
effectiveness on two pretrained models in Table 4.
We include the analysis on RoBERTa because it is
a more general and widely used pretrained model.

[[page 7]]
Methods Test Acc.
FreeLB (Zhu et al., 2020) 67.75
arcRoberta 67.15
xlnet+Roberta 67.06
AristoRoBERTaV7 (AllenAI, 2019) 66.47
+ AMR-SG-Full 68.94
Table 3: Test accuracy on ARC-Challenge. All models
use RoBERTa architecture for the pretrained model and
do not leverage additional KG.
Methods Dev Test
RoBERTa
No Fact 66.8 64.8
+ Fact Context 68.2 68.8 (+4.0)
+ Fact Analytics 73.2 73.0 (+4.2)
+ Fact-level Reasoning 72.8 74.2 (+1.2)
AristoRoBERTa
No Fact 71.0 70.0
+ Fact Context♠ 78.2 78.4 (+8.4)
+ Fact Analytics 79.4 81.4 (+3.0)
+ Fact-level Reasoning 79.6 81.6 (+0.2)
Table 4: Ablation study of model components on Open-
BookQA (adding one component incrementally). ♠ is
our reimplementation of (AllenAI, 2019).
We start from the vanilla pretrained models,
where no textual facts are provided (denoted as
No Fact). We retrieve 15 facts as the context to
create the ﬁrst variant (denoted as + Fact Context).
The purpose is to test the contribution of the facts
retrieved by the simple information retrieval (IR)
system (Elasticsearch). We continue to add the
path-based fact analytics component (denoted as
+ Fact Analytics). In fact, this variant merely use
the facts selected from AMR-SG to ﬁne-tune the
pretrained models. On top of both two pretrained
models, we observe a great performance improve-
ment, where the improvement brought by + Fact
Analytics is higher than + Fact Context on top of
RoBERTa, which demonstrates this component can
effectively select useful facts to ﬁll the knowledge
gap that have not been covered by the IR system.
We ﬁnally equip our model with the fact-level rea-
soning component (denoted as + Fact-level Rea-
soning). From the results, we can observe that
this component performs well on top of RoBERTa,
but has very little effect on top of AristoRoBERTa.
This is because this component tries to infuse some
fact-level connections to ease the reasoning process
of the model. Such information can be learned auto-
matically by the model itself if exposed to enough
in-domain data (AristoRoBERTa). Nevertheless,
the fact-level reasoning is a more general method
when such data is unavailable.
6 Explainability Analysis
6.1 Analysis of AMR-SG
Impact of Evidence Facts. As discussed above,
the major improvement of our approach comes
from more useful facts selected for each question-
choice pair. In this section, we take a deep look
at the quality and the composition of those facts
on OpenBookQA. We derive ﬁve variants by vary-
ing the composition of core (facts retrieved from
open-book) or common (facts from ARC Corpus)
facts. For core facts, as open-book annotates one
gold core fact for each question, the retrieval accu-
racy of the gold fact is a natural way to evaluate
the quality. For common facts, we conduct human
analysis to evaluate the quality from three aspects:
(1) Relatedness: Does the retrieved fact related to
the question or the answer? (2) Informativeness:
Does the retrieved fact provided useful informa-
tion to answer the question? (3) Completeness: Do
all retrieved facts together ﬁll the knowledge gap
to completely answer the question? We randomly
sample 50 questions and evaluate the evidence facts
corresponding to the correct answer choice, where
one fact would contribute 1 score if it meets the
requirement of Relatedness or Informativeness re-
spectively and all 15 facts contribute 1 score if they
together meet the requirement of Completeness.
Evaluation results are presented in Table 5.
When varying the fact composition of IR vari-
ants, we ﬁnd the gold core fact retrieval accuracy
has a positive impact on the ﬁnal accuracy on top of
RoBERTa. At this stage, some questions can be in-
ferred sufﬁciently with the gold core facts. Higher
retrieval accuracy accounts for more questions of
this kind to be correctly answered. However, this
advantage is not as obvious for AristoRoBERTa.
Our human evaluation reveals that such facts are un-
likely to form a complete reasoning chain, making
it hard for real multi-hop reasoning.
On the other hand, our approach directly mod-
els the intrinsic fact relations, where the path-
based analytics ensures that the facts selected are
in the reasoning chain from the question to the
answer. Results show that our approach makes
an overall improvement with regard to Related-
ness, Informativeness and Completeness and is

[[page 8]]
Facts Composition Core Fact Human Evaluation Test set Accuracy
(total 15 facts) Retrieval Accuracy Rel. Info. Comp. RoBERTa AristoRoBERTa
IR (5/10) 56.4 5.86 2.50 0.46 68.8 78.4
IR (10/5) 63.6 5.20 2.24 0.42 70.4 77.4
IR (15/0) 68.4 3.36 1.62 0.26 72.2 77.4
AMR-SG (10/30) 61.0 5.85 2.58 0.48 72.4 80.4
AMR-SG (10/100) 61.0 6.22 2.98 0.56 74.2 81.6
Table 5: Automatic and Human Evaluation of the evidence facts on OpenBookQA. IR (x/y) indicates we use simple
IR system to retrieve x core facts and y common facts. AMR-SG (x/y) indicates we construct AMR-SG with x core
facts and y common facts, based on which we then select 15 active facts and extract their relations.
less harmful to core fact retrieval. We also ﬁnd
that AMR-SG (10/100) can make a further improve-
ment compared to AMR-SG (10/30) by including
more facts to construct AMR-SG. It demonstrates
that AMR-SG has the capability of detecting useful
facts from a large and noisy fact pool, thus making
up for the deﬁciency of the IR system.
Impact of AMR Consistency. We investigate
the quality consistency of AMR graphs to see how
it affects the construction of AMR-SG and thus af-
fects the QA model. We prepare AMR in three con-
sistency levels, where Fully-Automatic is generated
by automatic AMR parser; Mixed is that we manu-
ally annotate the error-free AMRs for the core facts
in open-book (1326 in total) and use the error-free
core fact AMRs and other automatically generated
AMRs to construct AMR-SG; Error-Free-Adapted
is that we use the error-free AMRs annotated to
ﬁne-tune the AMR parser and use the tuned parser
to generate AMR for all the remaining facts (includ-
ing hypotheses and common facts, about 900k in
total). The test set accuracy are 81.6, 80.2, 80.4 for
Fully-Automatic, Mixed and Error-Free-Adapted
respectively. It is interesting to note that using
Fully-Automatic AMRs results in higher QA accu-
racy than Mixed and Error-Free-Adapted, where
the latter two contain a mix of AMRs with different
levels of quality. This phenomenon has also been
observed in other AMR applications (Liu et al.,
2015; Hardy and Vlachos, 2018), where automatic
parses perform well than manual parses. We con-
jecture that this can be attributed to the discrepancy
between the error-free AMRs and the automatically
parsed AMRs in the choices of AMR concepts with
similar meaning. This small difference in concept
choices may omit potential connections, results in
some important facts failing to be detected. In con-
Question: A seismograph can accurately de-
scribe (A) how rough the footing will be (B)
how bad the weather will be (C) how stable the
ground will be (D) how shaky the horse will be
Useful facts retrieved by IR: N.A.
Additional facts from path-based analytics:
A seismograph is a kind of tool for measuring
the size of an earthquake.
An earthquake is a shockwave travelling through
the ground.
Relevant path in AMR-SG:
seismograph→tool→measure-01→
size-01→earthquake→ground
Table 6: A case study showing how our framework se-
lects useful facts to completely ﬁll the knowledge gap.
trast, automatically parsed AMRs contain errors,
but they are consistent in their concept choices,
which is more likely for AMRs to form connections.
The 0.2 accuracy improvement between Mixed and
Error-Free-Adapted also demonstrates our assump-
tion, since the parser is ﬁnetuned on the error-free
AMRs, where its parsed AMRs should be more
consistent with the error-free AMRs.
6.2 Case Study
Table 6 shows one case study of evidence facts
selected by our framework. Since the important
term earthquake is missing from the search query,
the IR system assigns low retrieval scores for the
two facts, causing a low ranking. However, the two
facts can form a complete reasoning chain with the
question and the answer via several concept nodes,
where our approach can successfully extract the
two facts despite the low retrieval scores. More
cases can be found in Appendix A.1.

[[page 9]]
0
100
200
300
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
Count
Confidence
w/o fact-level reasoning
w/ fact-level reasoning
(a) (b)
81
81.2
81.4
81.6
81.8
82
0 1 2 3 4
Accuracy
K
Figure 3: Analysis of fact-level reasoning on Open-
BookQA. (a) presents the distribution of prediction con-
ﬁdence with or without fact-level reasoning module.
(b) shows the QA performance with different GCN
layer K. Size 0 denotes the original pretrained model.
6.3 Analysis of Fact-level Reasoning
Why Fact-level reasoning. Figure 3(a) shows
that fact-level reasoning improves the performance
by making a more conﬁdent prediction for the cor-
rect answer. This is because the fact-level connec-
tions of AMR-SG inform the model how these ac-
tive facts are intrinsically related, which allows the
model to precisely receive knowledge from related
facts.
Impact of Number of Hops (K). We vary the
hyper-parameter K to consider the impact of K-
hop neighbors on OpenBookQA. As show in Fig-
ure 3(b), the performance reaches the top atK = 2.
It indicates that most of the questions can be well
answered using two evidence facts, which is consis-
tent with the construction of this dataset. However,
the performance drops when K > 2. It might
be attributed to exponential noise found in longer
reasoning chains.
7 Conclusion
We propose to dynamically construct AMR-SG that
can reﬂect the intrinsic relations of relevant facts
leveraging AMR, a graph annotation. AMR-SG
combines the advantages of rich textual corpus and
graph structure, where we can select useful facts
that completely form the reasoning chain and make
fact-level modeling. Experimental results show that
AMR-SG can maintain high explainability, and suc-
cessfully couple with strong pretrained models to
achieve signiﬁcant improvement on OpenBookQA
and ARC-Challenge over approaches leveraging
additional KGs.
References
AllenAI. 2019. Aristorobertav7. In AristoRoBER-
TAv7.
Akari Asai, Kazuma Hashimoto, Hannaneh Hajishirzi,
Richard Socher, and Caiming Xiong. 2020. Learn-
ing to retrieve reasoning paths over wikipedia graph
for question answering. In International Conference
on Learning Representations.
Laura Banarescu, Claire Bonial, Shu Cai, Madalina
Georgescu, Kira Grifﬁtt, Ulf Hermjakob, Kevin
Knight, Philipp Koehn, Martha Palmer, and Nathan
Schneider. 2013. Abstract Meaning Representation
for sembanking. In Proceedings of the 7th Linguis-
tic Annotation Workshop and Interoperability with
Discourse, pages 178–186, Soﬁa, Bulgaria. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Pratyay Banerjee and Chitta Baral. 2020. Knowl-
edge fusion and semantic knowledge ranking for
open domain question answering. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2004.03101.
Pratyay Banerjee, Kuntal Kumar Pal, Arindam Mi-
tra, and Chitta Baral. 2019. Careful selection of
knowledge to solve open book question answering.
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics , pages
6120–6129, Florence, Italy. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Antoine Bosselut, Hannah Rashkin, Maarten Sap, Chai-
tanya Malaviya, Asli Celikyilmaz, and Yejin Choi.
2019. COMET: Commonsense transformers for au-
tomatic knowledge graph construction. In Proceed-
ings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics , pages 4762–4779,
Florence, Italy. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Deng Cai and Wai Lam. 2020. AMR parsing via graph-
sequence iterative inference. In Proceedings of the
58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, pages 1290–1301, Online. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Peter Clark, Isaac Cowhey, Oren Etzioni, Tushar Khot,
Ashish Sabharwal, Carissa Schoenick, and Oyvind
Tafjord. 2018. Think you have solved question an-
swering? try arc, the ai2 reasoning challenge. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1803.05457.
Dorottya Demszky, Kelvin Guu, and Percy Liang. 2018.
Transforming question answering datasets into nat-
ural language inference datasets. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1809.02922.
Yang Deng, Yuexiang Xie, Yaliang Li, Min Yang, Nan
Du, Wei Fan, Kai Lei, and Ying Shen. 2019. Multi-
task learning with multi-view attention for answer
selection and knowledge base question answering.
In The Thirty-Third AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, AAAI 2019, pages 6318–6325.

[[page 10]]
Yang Deng, Wenxuan Zhang, and Wai Lam. 2020.
Multi-hop inference for question-driven summariza-
tion. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
EMNLP 2020, pages 6734–6744.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language under-
standing. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) ,
pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics.
Shibhansh Dohare, Harish Karnick, and Vivek Gupta.
2017. Text summarization using abstract meaning
representation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.01678.
Yair Feldman and Ran El-Yaniv. 2019. Multi-hop para-
graph retrieval for open-domain question answering.
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics , pages
2296–2309, Florence, Italy. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Yanlin Feng, Xinyue Chen, Bill Yuchen Lin, Peifeng
Wang, Jun Yan, and Xiang Ren. 2020. Scalable
multi-hop relational reasoning for knowledge-aware
question answering. In Proceedings of the 2020
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP), pages 1295–1309, On-
line. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Clinton Gormley and Zachary Tong. 2015. Elastic-
search: the deﬁnitive guide: a distributed real-time
search and analytics engine . ” O’Reilly Media,
Inc.”.
Hardy Hardy and Andreas Vlachos. 2018. Guided neu-
ral language generation for abstractive summariza-
tion using Abstract Meaning Representation. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing , pages 768–
773, Brussels, Belgium. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Pavan Kapanipathi, Ibrahim Abdelaziz, Srinivas Rav-
ishankar, Salim Roukos, Alexander Gray, Ramon
Astudillo, Maria Chang, Cristina Cornelio, Saswati
Dana, Achille Fokoue, et al. 2020. Question an-
swering over knowledge bases by leveraging seman-
tic parsing and neuro-symbolic reasoning. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2012.01707.
Daniel Khashabi, Sewon Min, Tushar Khot, Ashish
Sabharwal, Oyvind Tafjord, Peter Clark, and Han-
naneh Hajishirzi. 2020. UNIFIEDQA: Crossing for-
mat boundaries with a single QA system. In Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: EMNLP 2020 , pages 1896–1907, Online. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Tushar Khot, Peter Clark, Michal Guerquin, Peter
Jansen, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2020. Qasc: A
dataset for question answering via sentence compo-
sition. In AAAI, pages 8082–8090.
Thomas N. Kipf and Max Welling. 2017. Semi-
Supervised Classiﬁcation with Graph Convolutional
Networks. In Proceedings of the 5th International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR ’17.
Guokun Lai, Qizhe Xie, Hanxiao Liu, Yiming Yang,
and Eduard Hovy. 2017. RACE: Large-scale ReAd-
ing comprehension dataset from examinations. In
Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages
785–794, Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Zhenzhong Lan, Mingda Chen, Sebastian Goodman,
Kevin Gimpel, Piyush Sharma, and Radu Soricut.
2019. Albert: A lite bert for self-supervised learn-
ing of language representations. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1909.11942.
Wenqiang Lei, Yuanxin Xiang, Yuwei Wang, Qian
Zhong, Meichun Liu, and Min-Yen Kan. 2018. Lin-
guistic properties matter for implicit discourse rela-
tion recognition: Combining semantic interaction,
topic continuity and attribution. In Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence , vol-
ume 32.
Wenqiang Lei, Gangyi Zhang, Xiangnan He, Yisong
Miao, Xiang Wang, Liang Chen, and Tat-Seng Chua.
2020. Interactive path reasoning on graph for con-
versational recommendation. Proceedings of the
26th ACM SIGKDD.
Xiang Li, Thien Huu Nguyen, Kai Cao, and Ralph Gr-
ishman. 2015. Improving event detection with Ab-
stract Meaning Representation. In Proceedings of
the First Workshop on Computing News Storylines ,
pages 11–15, Beijing, China. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Kexin Liao, Logan Lebanoff, and Fei Liu. 2018. Ab-
stract Meaning Representation for multi-document
summarization. In Proceedings of the 27th Inter-
national Conference on Computational Linguistics ,
pages 1178–1190, Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Bill Yuchen Lin, Xinyue Chen, Jamin Chen, and Xi-
ang Ren. 2019. KagNet: Knowledge-aware graph
networks for commonsense reasoning. In Proceed-
ings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing and the 9th Inter-
national Joint Conference on Natural Language Pro-
cessing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2829–2839, Hong
Kong, China. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Dayiheng Liu, Yeyun Gong, Jie Fu, Yu Yan, Jiusheng
Chen, Daxin Jiang, Jiancheng Lv, and Nan Duan.
2020. Rikinet: Reading wikipedia pages for natural
question answering.

[[page 11]]
Fei Liu, Jeffrey Flanigan, Sam Thomson, Norman
Sadeh, and Noah A. Smith. 2015. Toward abstrac-
tive summarization using semantic representations.
In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies ,
pages 1077–1086, Denver, Colorado. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Man-
dar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis,
Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019.
Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining ap-
proach. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692.
Todor Mihaylov, Peter Clark, Tushar Khot, and Ashish
Sabharwal. 2018. Can a suit of armor conduct elec-
tricity? a new dataset for open book question answer-
ing. In EMNLP.
Todor Mihaylov and Anette Frank. 2018. Knowledge-
able reader: Enhancing cloze-style reading compre-
hension with external commonsense knowledge. In
Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 821–832, Melbourne, Australia.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sewon Min, Victor Zhong, Richard Socher, and Caim-
ing Xiong. 2018. Efﬁcient and robust question an-
swering from minimal context over documents. In
Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 1725–1735, Melbourne, Aus-
tralia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Arindam Mitra and Chitta Baral. 2016. Addressing a
question answering challenge by combining statis-
tical methods with inductive rule learning and rea-
soning. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artiﬁcial Intelligence, volume 30.
Yixin Nie, Songhe Wang, and Mohit Bansal. 2019.
Revealing the importance of semantic retrieval for
machine reading at scale. In Proceedings of the
2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-
ral Language Processing and the 9th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2553–2566, Hong Kong,
China. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Lin Qiu, Yunxuan Xiao, Yanru Qu, Hao Zhou, Lei
Li, Weinan Zhang, and Yong Yu. 2019. Dynami-
cally fused graph network for multi-hop reasoning.
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics , pages
6140–6150, Florence, Italy. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan,
Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. 2019. Language
models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI
blog, 1(8):9.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2020. Exploring the lim-
its of transfer learning with a uniﬁed text-to-text
transformer. Journal of Machine Learning Research,
21(140):1–67.
Swarnadeep Saha and Mausam. 2018. Open informa-
tion extraction from conjunctive sentences. In Pro-
ceedings of the 27th International Conference on
Computational Linguistics, pages 2288–2299, Santa
Fe, New Mexico, USA. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Apoorv Saxena, Aditay Tripathi, and Partha Taluk-
dar. 2020. Improving multi-hop question answering
over knowledge graphs using knowledge base em-
beddings. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
pages 4498–4507, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Linfeng Song, Daniel Gildea, Yue Zhang, Zhiguo
Wang, and Jinsong Su. 2019. Semantic neural ma-
chine translation using AMR. Transactions of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 7:19–31.
Robyn Speer, Joshua Chin, and Catherine Havasi. 2017.
Conceptnet 5.5: An open multilingual graph of gen-
eral knowledge. In Proceedings of the AAAI Confer-
ence on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, volume 31.
Sho Takase, Jun Suzuki, Naoaki Okazaki, Tsutomu
Hirao, and Masaaki Nagata. 2016. Neural head-
line generation on Abstract Meaning Representation.
In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
1054–1059, Austin, Texas. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Ming Tu, Kevin Huang, Guangtao Wang, Jing Huang,
Xiaodong He, and Bowen Zhou. 2020. Select, an-
swer and explain: Interpretable multi-hop reading
comprehension over multiple documents. In AAAI,
pages 9073–9080.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Ł ukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all
you need. In Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, volume 30, pages 5998–6008. Cur-
ran Associates, Inc.
Peifeng Wang, Nanyun Peng, Filip Ilievski, Pedro
Szekely, and Xiang Ren. 2020. Connecting the dots:
A knowledgeable path generator for commonsense
question answering. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020, pages
4129–4140, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Xiaoyan Wang, Pavan Kapanipathi, Ryan Musa,
Mo Yu, Kartik Talamadupula, Ibrahim Abdelaziz,
Maria Chang, Achille Fokoue, Bassem Makni,

[[page 12]]
Nicholas Mattei, et al. 2019. Improving natural lan-
guage inference using external knowledge in the sci-
ence questions domain. In Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence , volume 33,
pages 7208–7215.
Yichong Xu, Chenguang Zhu, Ruochen Xu, Yang Liu,
Michael Zeng, and Xuedong Huang. 2020. Fusing
context into knowledge graph for commonsense rea-
soning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.04808.
Vikas Yadav, Steven Bethard, and Mihai Surdeanu.
2019. Quick and (not so) dirty: Unsupervised se-
lection of justiﬁcation sentences for multi-hop ques-
tion answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint Confer-
ence on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-
IJCNLP), pages 2578–2589, Hong Kong, China. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Vikas Yadav, Steven Bethard, and Mihai Surdeanu.
2020. Unsupervised alignment-based iterative evi-
dence retrieval for multi-hop question answering. In
Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics , pages 4514–
4525, Online. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Bishan Yang and Tom Mitchell. 2017. Leveraging
knowledge bases in LSTMs for improving machine
reading. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 1436–1446, Van-
couver, Canada. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio,
William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christo-
pher D. Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A dataset
for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answer-
ing. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Em-
pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,
pages 2369–2380, Brussels, Belgium. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Wenxuan Zhang, Yang Deng, and Wai Lam. 2020a.
Answer ranking for product-related questions via
multiple semantic relations modeling. In Proceed-
ings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR confer-
ence on research and development in Information
Retrieval, SIGIR 2020, pages 569–578.
Yao Zhang, Xu Zhang, Jun Wang, Hongru Liang,
Adam Jatowt, Wenqiang Lei, and Zhenglu Yang.
2020b. Gmh: A general multi-hop reasoning model
for kg completion.
Chen Zhao, Chenyan Xiong, Xin Qian, and Jordan
Boyd-Graber. 2020. Complex factoid question an-
swering with a free-text knowledge graph. In Pro-
ceedings of The Web Conference 2020, pages 1205–
1216.
Wanjun Zhong, Jingjing Xu, Duyu Tang, Zenan Xu,
Nan Duan, Ming Zhou, Jiahai Wang, and Jian Yin.
2020. Reasoning over semantic-level graph for fact
checking. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
pages 6170–6180, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Chen Zhu, Yu Cheng, Zhe Gan, Siqi Sun, Tom Gold-
stein, and Jingjing Liu. 2020. Freelb: Enhanced ad-
versarial training for natural language understanding.
In International Conference on Learning Represen-
tations.
Fengbin Zhu, Wenqiang Lei, Youcheng Huang, Chao
Wang, Shuo Zhang, Jiancheng Lv, Fuli Feng, and
Tat-Seng Chua. 2021a. Tat-qa: A question answer-
ing benchmark on a hybrid of tabular and textual
content in ﬁnance.
Fengbin Zhu, Wenqiang Lei, Chao Wang, Jianming
Zheng, Soujanya Poria, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2021b.
Retrieving and reading: A comprehensive survey on
open-domain question answering. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2101.00774.
A Appendix
A.1 Case Study
More case studies can be found in Table 7.

[[page 13]]
(a) Case Study 1
Question: Algae can be found in (A) reservoir (B) meat (C) street (D) tree
Useful facts retrieved by IR: Algae is found in bodies of water.
Additional facts from path-
based analytics:
Water reservoir: a large quantity of water is stored in a reservoir (or
dam).
Relevant path in AMR-SG: Algae → find-01 → body → water → store-01
→ reservoir
(b) Case Study 2
Question: Photosynthesis can be performed by (A) a cabbage cell (B) a bee
cell (C) a bear cell (D) a cat cell
Useful facts retrieved by IR: N.A.
Additional facts from path-
based analytics:
Plant cells can perform photosynthesis.
Description: skunk cabbage is a ﬂowering perennial plant that is one
of the ﬁrst plants to emerge in the spring.
Relevant path in AMR-SG: Photosynthesis → plant → cabbage
(c) Case Study 3
Question: Which is recyclable? (A) An Elephant (B) A school notebook (C)
A boat (D) A lake
Useful facts retrieved by IR: Paper is recyclable.
Additional facts from path-
based analytics:
Take notes on notebook paper.
Relevant path in AMR-SG: recycle-01 → paper → notebook
(d) Case Study 4
Question: Which requires energy to move? (A) weasel (B) willow (C) mango
(D) poison ivy
Useful facts retrieved by IR: An animal requires energy to move.
Additional facts from path-
based analytics:
The long and slender body of the weasel allows it to move, almost
ﬂow, over terrain.
Relevant path in AMR-SG: energy → move-01 → weasel
(e) Case Study 5
Question: A person wants to be able to have more natural power in their home.
They choose to cease using a traditional electric company to source
this electricity, and so decide to install (A) sun grafts (B) sunlight
shields (C) panels collecting sunlight (D) solar bees
Useful facts retrieved by IR: A home with solar electric panels on the roof might be able to make
most of its own electricity, for example.
Additional facts from path-
based analytics:
Solar thermal panels generate hot water from the natural energy in
sunlight.
Relevant path in AMR-SG: natural-03 → energy → generate-01 →
sunlight → panel
Table 7: More case studies in addition to Table 6