[[page 1]]
Variational Reasoning for
Question Answering with Knowledge Graph
Yuyu Zhang1∗
, Hanjun Dai 1∗
, Zornitsa Kozareva 2, Alexander J. Smola 2, and Le Song 1
1College of Computing, Georgia Institute of Technology
2Amazon Web Services
1{yuyu.zhang, hanjun.dai, lsong }@cc.gatech.edu
2{kozareva, smola}@amazon.com
Abstract
Knowledge graph is known to be helpful for the task of question answering (QA), since it
provides well-structured relational information between entities, and allows one to further infer
indirect facts. However, it is challenging to build QA systems which can learn to reason over
knowledge graphs based on question-answer pairs alone. First, when people ask questions, their
expressions are noisy (for example, typos in texts, or variations in pronunciations), which is non-
trivial for the QA system to match those mentioned entities to the knowledge graph. Second,
many questions require multi-hop logic reasoning over the knowledge graph to retrieve the
answers. To address these challenges, we propose a novel and uniﬁed deep learning architecture,
and an end-to-end variational learning algorithm which can handle noise in questions, and learn
multi-hop reasoning simultaneously. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on a
recent benchmark dataset in the literature. We also derive a series of new benchmark datasets,
including questions for multi-hop reasoning, questions paraphrased by neural translation model,
and questions in human voice. Our method yields very promising results on all these challenging
datasets.
1 Introduction
Question answering (QA) has been a long-standing research problem in Machine Learning and
Artiﬁcial Intelligence. Thanks to the creation of large-scale knowledge graphs such as DBPedia [1]
and Freebase [2], QA systems can be armed with well-structured knowledge on speciﬁc and open
domains. Many traditional approaches for KG-powered QA are based on semantic parsers [3, 4, 5, 6],
which ﬁrst map a question to formal meaning representation (e.g. logical form) and then translate
it to a KB query. The answer to the question can be retrieved by executing the query. One of the
disadvantages of these approaches is that the model is not trained end-to-end and errors may be
cascaded.
With the recent success of deep learning, some end-to-end solutions based on neural networks
have been proposed and show very promising performance on benchmark datasets, such as Memory
∗Both authors contributed equally to the paper.
1
arXiv:1709.04071v1  [cs.LG]  12 Sep 2017

[[page 2]]
Networks [7], Key-Value Memory Networks [8] and Gated Graph Sequence Neural Networks [9].
However, these neural approaches treat the KG as a ﬂattened big table of itemized knowledge
records, making it hard to exploit the structure information in the graph and thus weak on logic
reasoning. When the answer is not a direct neighbor of the topic entity in question (i.e. there are
multiple hops between question and answer entities in the KG), which requires logic reasoning over
the KG, the neural approaches usually perform poorly. For instance, it is easy to handle single-hop
questions like “Who wrote the paper titled ...? ” by querying itemized knowledge records in triples
(paper title, authored by, author name). However, logic reasoning on the KG is required for multi-
hop questions such as “ Who have co-authored papers with ...? ”. With the KG, we start from the
mentioned author, and followauthor authored−−−−−→paper
authored by
−−−−−−−→author to ﬁnd answers. A common
remedy is the so-called knowledge graph completion: create new relations for non-neighbor entity
pairs in the KG [10, 11, 12]. However, multi-hop reasoning is combinatorial in nature, i.e. the
number of multi-hop relations grow explosively with the increase of hops. For example, if we create
new relation types like friend-of-friend and friend-of-friend-of-friend, the number of edges in the
KG will explode, which is intractable for both storage and computation.
Another key challenge is how to locate topic entities in the KG. Most existing works assume
that the topic entity in question can be located by simple string matching [8, 13, 9, 5], which is
often not true. When people ask questions, either in text or speech, various noise can be introduced
in the expressions. For example, people are likely to make typos or name ambiguity in question.
In even harder case, audio questions, people may pronounce the same entity diﬀerently in diﬀerent
questions, even for the same person. Due to these noises, it is hard to do exact matching to
locate topic entities. For text questions, broad matching techniques (e.g. hand-craft rules, regular
expressions, edit distance, etc.) are widely used for entity recognition [14]. However, they require
domain experts and lots of human eﬀort. For speech questions, it is even harder to match topic
entities directly. Most existing QA systems ﬁrst do speech recognition, converting the audio to
text, and then match entities in text. Unfortunately, the error rate is typically high for speech
recognition system to recognize entities in voice, such as human names or street addresses. Since it
is not end-to-end, the error of the speech recognition system may cascade to aﬀect the downstream
QA system.
Typically, the training data for QA system is provided as question-answer pairs, where ﬁne-
grained annotation of these pairs are not available, or only available for a few. More speciﬁcally,
there are very few explicit annotations of the exact entity present in the question, the type of the
questions, and the exact logic reasoning steps along the knowledge graph leading to the answer.
Thus it is challenging to simultaneously learn to locate the topic KG entity in the question, and
ﬁgure out the unknown reasoning steps pointing to the answer based on training question-answer
pairs alone.
To address the challenges mentioned above, we propose an end-to-end learning framework for
question answering with knowledge graph named variational reasoning network (VRN), which have
the following new features:
• We build a probabilistic modeling framework for end-to-end QA system, which can simulta-
neously handle uncertain topic entity and multi-hop reasoning.
• We propose a novel propagation-like deep learning architecture over the knowledge graph to
perform logic inference in the probabilistic model.
• We apply the REINFORCE algorithm with variance reduction technique to make the system
2

[[page 3]]
end-to-end trainable.
• Based on the MovieQA dataset, we derive a series of new challenging benchmark datasets
MetaQA1 (MoviE Text Audio QA) intended for research on question-answering systems.
These datasets contain over 400K questions for both single- and multi-hop reasoning. To
test QA systems in more realistic (and more diﬃcult) scenarios, MetaQA also provides
neural-translation-model-paraphrased datasets, and text-to-speech-based audio datasets.
Extensive experiments show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on both
single- and multi-hop datasets, demonstrating the capability of multi-hop reasoning. Moreover, we
obtain promising results on the challenging audio QA datasets, showing the eﬀectiveness of end-
to-end learning framework. With the rise of virtual assistant tools (e.g. Alexa, Cortana, Google
Assistant and Siri), QA systems are now even closer to our daily life. This paper is one step towards
more realistic QA systems, which can handle noisy question input in both text and speech, and
learn from examples to reason over the knowledge graph.
2 Related Work
QA with semantic parser: Most traditional approaches for KG-powered QA are based on
semantic parsers, which map the question to a certain meaning representation or logical form [3,
4, 15, 5, 6], or directly map the question to an executable program [16]. These approaches require
domain-speciﬁc grammars, rules, or ﬁne-grained annotations. Also, they are not designed to handle
noisy questions, and do not support end-to-end training since they use separate stages for question
parsing and logic reasoning.
Neural approaches for QA: The family of memory networks achieves state-of-the-art perfor-
mance in various kinds of QA tasks. Some of them are able to do reasoning within local con-
text [17, 18] using attention mechanism [19]. For QA with KG, Miller et al. [8] achieves state-of-
the-art performance, outperforming previous works [20, 7] on benchmark datasets. Recent work [21]
uses neural programmer model for QA with single knowledge table. However, the multi-hop reason-
ing capability of these approaches depends on recurrent attentions and there is no explicit traversal
over the KG.
Graph embedding: Recently, researchers have built deep architectures to embed structured data,
such as trees [22, 23, 24] or graphs [25, 26, 27]. Also some works [9, 28] extend it to sequential case
like multi-step reasoning. However, these approaches only work on small instances like sentences or
molecules. Instead, our work embeds the reasoning-graph from source entity to every target entity
in large-scale knowledge graph.
Multi-hop reasoning: There are some other works on knowledge graph completion with traversal,
which requires path sampling [12, 29] or dynamic programming [30]. Our work can handle QA with
natural language or human speech, and the reasoning-graph embeddings can represent complicated
reasoning rules.
In summary, most of the existing approaches have separate stages for entity locating, such as
keyword matching, frequency-based method, and domain-speciﬁc methods [31]. Since they are not
jointly trained with the reasoning part, the errors in entity locating (e.g. incorrectly recognized
name entity from speech recognition system) will be cascaded to the downstream QA system.
1Our new benchmark dataset collections MetaQA are publicly available at https://goo.gl/f3AmcY.
3

[[page 4]]
The	actor	of	Lost	Christmas	
also	starred	in	which	
movies?
𝑔(𝐺$→&)
𝑃)*(𝑦|𝑞)
𝑦	~	𝑃)*(𝑦|𝑞)𝑓123(𝑞)
……
.Inner	product
Shifty
Reasoning-Graph
Embedding
Topic Entity
Recognition
Question
Representations
Answer
Retrieval
argmax
&
𝑃)9(𝑎|𝑦,𝑞)Classifier
𝑓<3(𝑞)
𝑔(𝐺$→=2>	?@	3A1	B?CD>)
𝑔(𝐺$→EAF@3$)
Knowledge	Graph
Lost	Christmas
John	Hay
written by
acted
Jason	Flemyngreleased in
2011
directed by
End	of	the	world
Shifty
acted
directed by The	Truth	About	Love
written by
……
𝑔(𝐺$→GA1	GCH3A
IJ?H3	K?L1
)
Figure 1: End-to-end architecture of the variational reasoning network (VRN) for question-answering with
knowledge graph. The model consists of two probabilistic modules for topic entity recognition ( P (y|q))
and logic reasoning over knowledge graph ( P (a|y,q )) respectively. Inside the knowledge base plate, the
scope of entity Lost Christmas (colored red) is illustrated, and each colored ellipsoid plate corresponds to
the reasoning graph leading to a potential answer colored in yellow. The reasoning graphs are eﬃciently
embedded and scored against the question embeddings to retrieve the best answer. During training, to handle
the non-diﬀerentiable sampling operation y∼ P (y|q), we use variational posterior with the REINFORCE
algorithm.
3 Model
3.1 Problem deﬁnition
Knowledge base/graph (KG): A knowledge graph is a directed graph where the entities and
their relations are represented by nodes and edges, respectively, i.e. G = (V (G),E (G)). Further-
more, each edge fromE(G) is a triplet (a1
i,ri,a 2
i ), representing a directed relationri between subject
entitya1
i and object entity a2
i both from the node set V (G). Each entity in the knowledge graph
can also contain additional information such as type and text description. For instance, entity a1
i
is described as actor Jennifer Lawrence, and entity a2
i is movie Passengers. Then a relation in the
knowledge graph can be ( Jennifer Lawrence, acted in, Passengers), where the corresponding ri is
acted in. In this work, we assume that the knowledge graph is given.
Question answering with KG: Given a question q, the algorithm is asked to output an entity
in the knowledge graph which properly answers the question. For example, q can be a question
like “who acted in the movie Passengers ?”, and one possible answer is Jennifer Lawrence, which
is an entity in the KG. In a more challenging setting, q can even be an audio segment reading the
same question. The training set Dtrain ={(qi,ai)}N
i=1 contains N pairs of question and answers.
Note that ﬁne-grained annotation is not present, such as the exact entity present in the question,
question type, or the exact logic reasoning steps along the knowledge graph leading to the answer.
Thus, a QA system with KG should be able to handle noisy entity in questions and learn multi-hop
reasoning directly from question-answer pairs.
3.2 Overall formulation
To address both key challenges in a uniﬁed probabilistic framework, we propose the variational rea-
soning network (VRN). The overall architecture is shown in Fig 1. VRN consists of two probabilistic
4

[[page 5]]
modules, as described below.
Module for topic entity recognition: Recognizing the topic entity y (or the entity mentioned
in the question) is the ﬁrst step in performing logic reasoning over the knowledge graph 2. For
example, the topic entity mentioned in Sec 3.1 is the movie Passenger. We denote such entity as
y, and model the compatibility of this entity with the question q as a probabilistic model Pθ1(y|q),
which shows the probability of the KG entity y being mentioned in the question q. Depending on
the question form (text or audio), the parameterization of Pθ1(y|q) may be diﬀerent and details
can be found in Sec 3.3.
Module for logic reasoning over knowledge graph: Given the topic entity y, one need to
reason over the knowledge graph to ﬁnd out the answer a. As described in Sec 3.1, the algorithm
should learn to use the reasoning rule (y, acted by,a ) for that question. Since there is no annotations
for such reasoning step, the QA system has to learn it only from question-answer pairs. Thus we
model the likelihood of an answer a being correct given entity y and question q asPθ2(a|y,q ). The
parameterization of Pθ2(a|y,q ) need to capture traversal or reasoning over knowledge graph, which
is explained in detail in Sec 3.4.
Since the topic entity in question is not annotated, it is natural to formulate the problem by
treating the topic entity y as a latent variable. With the two probabilistic components above, we
model the probability of answer a being correct given question q as∑
y∈V (G)Pθ1(y|qi)Pθ2(ai|y,qi),
which sums out all possibilities of the latent variable. Given a training set Dtrain of N question-
answer pairs, the set of parameters θ1 andθ2 can be estimated by maximizing the log-likelihood of
this latent variable model:
max
θ1,θ2
1
N
N∑
i=1
log

 ∑
y∈V (G)
Pθ1(y|qi)Pθ2(ai|y,qi)

. (1)
Next we will describe our parametrization ofPθ1(y|q) andPθ2(a|y,q ), and the algorithms for learning
and inference based on that.
3.3 Probabilistic module for topic entity recognition
Most existing QA approaches assume that topic entities are annotated, or can be simply found
via string matching. However, for more realistic questions or even audio questions, a more general
approach is to build a recognizer that can be trained jointly with the logic reasoning engine.
To handle unlabeled topic entities, we notice that the full context of the question can be helpful.
For example, Michael could either be the name of a movie or an actor. It is hard to tell which one
relates to the question by merely looking at this entity name. However, we should be able to resolve
the unique entity by checking the surrounding words in the question. Similarly, in the knowledge
graph there could be multiple entities with the same name, but the connected edges (relations) of
the entity nodes are diﬀerent, which helps to resolve the unique entity. For example, as a movie
name, Michael may be connected with a directed by edge pointing to an entity of director; while
as an actor name, Michael may be connected with birthday and height edges.
Speciﬁcally, we use a neural network fent(·) : q↦→ Rd which can represent the question q in a
d dimensional vector. Depending on the question form (text or audio), this neural network can be
a simple embedding network mapping bag-of-words to a vector, or a recurrent neural network to
2In this paper, we consider the case with single topic entity in each question.
5

[[page 6]]
Chopper
Andrew 
Dominik
Killing Them Softly
Crime
y
Brown's RequiemThe Assassination
0
1
1
2
 2
 2
directed_by
has_genre
written_by
 Embedding
Propagation
Figure 2: A question like “ movie sharing same genre and director ” would require two reasoning
pathsy→ Crime→a andy→ Andrew Dominik→a. The vector representation should encode the
information of the entire reasoning-graph, which can be computed recursively. Thus the embedding
of Andrew Dominik can be reused by The assassination and Killing Them Softly .
embed sentences, or a convolution neural network to embed audio questions. Thus the probability
of having y in q is
Pθ1(y|q) = softmax
(
W⊤
y fent(q)
)
(2)
= exp(W⊤
y fent(q))∑
y′∈V (G) exp(W⊤
y′fent(q)), (3)
where Wy∈ Rd,∀y∈ V (G) are the weights in the last classiﬁcation layer. This parameterization
avoids heuristic keyword matching for the entity as is done in previous work [8, 20], and makes the
entity recognition process diﬀerentiable and end-to-end trainable.
3.4 Probabilistic module for logic reasoning over knowledge graph
Algorithm 1 Joint training of VRN
1: Initialize θ1,θ 2,φ with small labeled set
2: for i = 1 to n do
3: Sample (qi,ai) from the training data
4: Sample{yj}M
j=1 using (8)
5: Smoothing ˜µ, ˜σ with{A(yj,ai,qi)}M
j=1
6: Update the baseline b(a,q ) using least square
7: ψ←ψ−η∇ψL using (10)
8: θ1←θ1−η∇θ1L, θ2←θ2−η∇θ2L
9: end for
Parameterizing the reasoning model Pθ2(a|y,q ) is challenging, since1) the knowledge graph can
be very large; 2) the required logic reasoning is unknown and can be multi-step. In other words,
6

[[page 7]]
retrieving the answer requires multi-step traversal over a gigantic graph. Thus in this paper, we
propose a reasoning-graph embedding architecture, where all the inference rules and their complex
combinations are represented as nonlinear embeddings in vector space and will be learned.
Scope of y. More speciﬁcally, we assume the maximum number of steps (or hops), T , of the
logic reasoning is known to the algorithm. Starting from a topic entity y, we perform topological
sort (ignoring the original edge direction) for all entities within T hops according to the knowledge
graph. After that, we get an ordered list of entities a1,a 2,...,a m and their relations from the
knowledge graph. We call this subgraph Gy with ordered nodes as the scope of y. Fig 2 shows an
example of a 2-hop scope, where entities are labeled with their topological distance to the source
entity.
Reasoning graph to a. Given a potential answer a in the scope Gy, we denote Gy→a to be
the minimum subgraph that contains all the paths from y to a inGy. The actual logic reasoning
leading to answer a for question q is unknown but hidden in the reasoning graph. Thus we will
learn a vector representation (or embedding) for Gy→a, denoted as g(Gy→a)∈ Rd, for scoring the
compatibility of the question type and the hidden path in the reasoning graph.
More speciﬁcally, suppose the question is embedded using a neural network fqt(·) : q↦→ Rd,
which captures the question type and implies the type of logic reasoning we need to perform over
knowledge graph. Then the compatibility (or likelihood) of answera being correct can be computed
using the embedded reasoning graph Gy→a and the scopeGy as
Pθ2(a|y,q ) = softmax
(
fqt(q)⊤g(Gy→a)
)
(4)
= exp(fqt(q)⊤g(Gy→a))∑
a′∈V (Gy) exp(fqt(q)⊤g(Gy→a′)). (5)
We note that the normalization in the likelihood requires the embedding of the reasoning graphs
for all entities a′ in the scope Gy. This may involve thousands of or even more reasoning graphs
depending on the KG and the number of hops. Computing these embeddings separately can be
very computationally expensive. Instead, we develop a neural architecture which can compute these
embeddings jointly and share intermediate computations.
Joint embedding reasoning graphs. More speciﬁcally, we propose a “forward graph embed-
ding” architecture, which is analogous to forward ﬁltering in Hidden Markov Model or Bayesian
Network. The embedding of the reasoning graph for a is computed recursively using its parents’
embeddings:
g(Gy→a) = 1
#Parent(a)
∑
aj∈Parent(a),(aj,r,a) or ( a,r,aj )∈Gy
σ(V× [g(Gy→aj),⃗ er]), (6)
where⃗ er is the one-hot encoding of relation type r∈R ,V ∈ Rd×(d+|R|) are the model parameters,
σ(·) is a nonlinear function such as ReLU, and #Parent(a) counts the number of parents ofa inGy.
The only boundary case is g(Gy→y) =⃗0 when y =a. Overall, computing the embedding g(Gy→a)
for all a takesO(|V (Gy)| +|E(Gy)|) time, which is proportional to the number of nodes and edges
in the scopeGy.
This formulation is able to capture various reasoning rules. Take Fig 2 as an example: the
embedding of the entity Killing Them Softly sums up the two embeddings propagated from its
parents. Thus it tends to match the reasoning paths from the parent entities. Note that this
7

[[page 8]]
formulation is signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from the work in [25, 26, 27], where embedding is computed
for each small molecular graph separately. Furthermore, those graph embedding methods often
contain iterative processes which visit each nodes multiple times.
4 End-to-end Learning
In this section, we describe the algorithm for learning the parameters in Pθ1(y|q) and Pθ2(a|y,q ).
The overall learning algorithm is described in Algorithm 1.
4.1 Variational method with inverse reasoning-graph embedding
EM algorithm is often used to learn latent variable models. However, performing exact EM updates
for the objective in (1) is intractable since the posterior cannot be computed in closed form. Instead,
we use variational inference and optimize the negative Helmholtz variational free energy:
max
ψ,θ1,θ2
L(ψ,θ 1,θ 2) = 1
N
N∑
i=1
EQψ(y|qi,ai)[
logPθ1(y|qi) + logPθ2(ai|y,qi)
− logQψ(y|qi,ai)], (7)
where the variational posterior Qψ(y|q,a ) is jointly learned with the model. Note that (7) is
essentially optimizing the lower bound of (1). Thus to reduce the approximation error, a powerful
set of posterior distributions is necessary.
V ariational posterior. Qψ computes the likelihood of the topic entity y for a question q, with
additional information of answer a. Thus besides the direct text or acoustic compatibility of y
and q, we can also introduce logic match with the help of a. Similar to the forward propagation
architecture used in Sec 3.4, here we can deﬁne the scope Ga for answer a, the inverse reasoning
graphGa→y, and the inverse embedding architecture to eﬃciently compute the embedding ˜g(Ga→y).
Finally, the variational posterior consists of two parts:
Qψ(y|q,a )∝ exp
(
˜W⊤
y ˜fent(q) + ˜fqt(q)⊤˜g(Ga→y)
)
, (8)
where the normalization is done over all entities y′ in the scope Ga. Furthermore, the embedding
operators ˜fent, ˜fqt and parameters{ ˜Wy}y∈V (G) are deﬁned in the same way as (4) and (6) but with
diﬀerent set of parameters. One can also share the parameter to obtain a more compact model.
4.2 REINFORCE with variance reduction
Since the latent variable y in the variational objective (7) takes discrete values, which is not diﬀer-
entiable with respect to ψ, we use the REINFORCE algorithm [32] with variance reduction [33] to
tackle this problem.
First, using the likelihood ratio trick, the gradient of L with respect to posterior parameters ψ
can be computed as (for simplicity of notation, we assume that there is only one training instance,
i.e. N = 1):
∇ψL = EQψ(y|a,q)
[
∇ψ logQψ(y|a,q )A(y,a,q )
]
, (9)
8

[[page 9]]
Table 1: Test results (% hits@1) on Vanilla and Vanilla-EU datasets. EU stands for entity unla-
beled.
Vanilla
1-hop
Vanilla
2-hop
Vanilla
3-hop
Vanilla-EU
1-hop
Vanilla-EU
2-hop
Vanilla-EU
3-hop
VRN 97.5 89.9 62.5 82.0 75.6 38.3
Bordes et al. [20]’s QA system 95.7 81.8 28.4 39.5 38.3 26.9
KV-MemNN 95.8 25.1 10.1 35.8 10.3 10.5
Supervised embedding 54.4 29.1 28.9 18.1 23.2 25.3
whereA(y,a,q ) = logPθ1(y|q)+log Pθ2(a|y,q )−logQψ(y|q,a ) can be treated as the learning signal
in policy gradient.
Second, to reduce the variance of gradient, we center and normalize the signal A(y,a,q ) and
also subtract a baseline function b(a,q ) [33]. Finally, the gradient in (9) can be approximated by
the Monte Carlo method using K samples of the latent variable from Qψ:
∇ψL≈ 1
K
∑K
j=1∇ψ logQψ(yj|a,q )
( (A(yj,a,q)−˜µ)
˜σ −b(a,q )
)
, (10)
where ˜µ and ˜σ estimate the mean and standard deviation ofA(yj,a,q ) with moving average. b(a,q )
is another neural network that ﬁts the expected normalized learning signal. In our experiments, we
simply build a two-layer perceptron with concatenated one-hot answer and question features. Here
b(a,q ) tries to ﬁt ˜A(yj,a,q ) = (A(yj,a,q)−˜µ)
˜σ by minimizing the square loss. For other parameters θ1
and θ2 in Pθ1(y|q) and P(θ2)(a|y,q ) respectively, the gradients are computed in the normal way.
5 Inference
During inference, we are only given the question q, and ideally we want to ﬁnd the answer by com-
puting arg maxy,a log (Pθ1(y|q)Pθ2(a|y,q )). However, this computation is quadratic in the number
of entities and thus too expensive. Alternatively, we can approximate it via beam search. So we
selectk candidate entitiesy1,y 2,...,y k with top scores from Pθ1(y|q), and then the answer is given
by
a∗ = argmax
a∈Gy,y∈{y1,y2,...,yk}
logPθ2(a|y,q ). (11)
In our experiments, we found that k = 1 (equivalent as greedy inference) can already achieve good
performance.
6 Experiments
6.1 The MetaQA benchmark
There is an existing public QA dataset named WikiMovies 3, which consists of question-answer
pairs in the domain of movies and provides a medium-sized knowledge graph [8]. However, it has
3It is available at https://research.fb.com/downloads/babi.
9

[[page 10]]
Table 2: Test results (% hits@1) on NTM-EU and Audio-EU datasets. EU stands for entity
unlabeled.
NTM-EU
1-hop
NTM-EU
2-hop
NTM-EU
3-hop
Audio-EU
1-hop
Audio-EU
2-hop
Audio-EU
3-hop
VRN 81.3 69.7 38.0 37.0 24.6 21.1
Bordes et al. [20]’s QA system 32.5 32.3 25.3 18.5 19.3 15.3
KV-MemNN 33.9 8.7 10.2 4.3 7.0 15.3
Supervised embedding 16.1 22.8 24.2 4.1 6.1 12.1
several limitations: 1) all questions in it are single-hop, thus it is not able to evaluate the ability
of reasoning; 2) there is no noise on the topic entity in question, so it can be easily located in the
knowledge graph; 3) it is generated from very limited number of text templates, which is easy to
be exploited by models and of limited practical value. Some small datasets like WebQuestions [5]
are mostly for single-hop questions; while WikiTableQuestions [34] involves tiny knowledge table
for each question, instead of one large-scale knowledge graph shared among all questions.
Thus in this paper, we introduce a new challenging question-answer benchmark: MetaQA
(MoviE Text Audio QA). It contains more than 400K questions for both single and multi-hop
reasoning, and provides more realistic text and audio versions. MetaQA serves as a comprehensive
extension of WikiMovies. Due to the page limit, we brieﬂy list the datasets included in MetaQA
below, and put more details in Appendix A.
• V anilla: We have the original WikiMovies as the Vanilla 1-hop dataset. For multi-hop
reasoning, we design 21 types of 2-hop questions and 15 types of 3-hop questions, and generate
them by random sampling from a text template pool. Details and question examples are in
Appendix B.
• NTM: Thanks to the recent breakthrough in neural translation models (NTM), we can
introduce more variations over the Vanilla datasets. We use a NTM trained by dual learning
techniques [35] to paraphrase question by ﬁrst translating it from English to French, and then
sample translations back to English with beam search. The questions in the NTM dataset
have diﬀerent wordings but keep the same meaning. This dataset also contains 1-hop, 2-hop
and 3-hop categories.
• Audio: To make it even more practical and challenging, we generate audio datasets with the
help of text-to-speech (TTS) system. We use Google TTS service to read all the questions
in Vanilla. We also provide extracted MFCC features for each question. The Audio dataset
also contains 1-hop, 2-hop and 3-hop categories. Note that although the audio is machine-
generated, it is still much less regulated compared to text-template-generated data, and have
a lot of variations in waveforms. For example, even for the same word, the TTS system
can have diﬀerent intonations depending on the word position in question and other context
words. Visualization of the audio data can be found in Appendix C.
10

[[page 11]]
1-hop 2-hop 3-hop 1-hop 2-hop 3-hop
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Accuracy
Vanilla-EU NTM-EU
Performance improvement of entity recognizer
5% init
joint train
Figure 3: Improvement of the entity recognizer.
6.2 Competitor methods
We have three competitor methods: 1) as discussed in Sec 2, Miller et al. [8] proposed Key-Value
Memory Networks (KV-MemNN), and reported state-of-the-art results at that time on WikiMovies;
2) Bordes et al. [20]’s QA system also tries to embed the inference subgraph for reasoning, but the
representation is simply an unordered bag-of-relationships and neighbor entities; 3) the “supervised
embedding” is considered as yet another baseline method, which is a simple approach but often
works surprisingly well as reported in Dodge et al. [13].
We implement baseline methods with Tensorﬂow [36]. Our results on Vanilla 1-hop are consis-
tent with the reported performance in [8]. We take whichever higher and report it in Table 1. For
example, our KV-MemNN obtains 95.8% test accuracy, while the original paper reports 93.9% on
the same dataset, so we just report 95.8% in table.
When training KV-MemNN, we use the same number of “internal hops” as the hop number of
that dataset. We also try to use more “internal hops” than the dataset hop number, but it is not
helpful. Also, we insert knowledge items within 3 hops of the located topic entity to the memory
slots, which ensures that if the topic entity is correctly matched, the answer is existing somewhere
in the memory array.
6.3 Experimental settings
We use all the datasets inMetaQA for experiments. We follow the same split of train/validation/test
for all datasets. The number of questions in each part is listed in Appendix (Table 3). We tune
hyperparameters on validation set for all methods. In both Vanilla and NTM, we use bag-of-words
representation for entity name to parameterize Wy in (3).
For Vanilla, we have two diﬀerent settings: 1) provide the entity labels in all questions, so that
we can compare with KV-MemNN under the same setting of Miller et al. [8] on Vanilla 1-hop
dataset; 2) only provide 5% entity labels among all questions, named as Vanilla-EU (EU stands for
topic entity unlabeled). We make all the methods use bag-of-words representation of the question,
and avoid hard entity matching. This setting is more of a sanity check of how much the method
11

[[page 12]]
is dependent on labeled topic entities. In practice, hard matching can always be an option on text
data, but it is not feasible for audio data.
To make task more realistic and challenging, we experiment with EU setting for NTM and
Audio datasets. For NTM-EU, only 5% topic entity labels among all questions are provided. For
Audio-EU, a higher labeled ratio 20% since it is much more diﬃcult than text data. To handle the
variant length of audio questions, we use a simple convolutional neural network (CNN) with three
convolutional layers and three max-pooling layers to embed the audio questions into ﬁxed-dimension
vectors. We put more details about CNN embedding in Appendix D.
For all the EU setting above, the small set of entity labeled questions are used to initialize
a topic entity recognizer. After that, all methods train on entire dataset but without the entity
labels. For VRN, we show that this pretrained recognizer will also get improved with variational
joint training; for other baselines, the entity recognizer will be ﬁxed.
6.4 Results and discussions
The experimental results are listed in Table 1 and Table 2.
V anilla: Since all the topic entities are labeled, Vanilla mainly evaluates the ability of logic rea-
soning. Note that Vanilla 1-hop is the same as WikiMovies, which is included for sanity check. All
the baseline methods achieve similar performance as reported in the original papers [8, 20], while
our method performs the best. It is clear to see that 2- and 3-hop questions are harder, leading to
signiﬁcant accuracy drop on all methods. Nevertheless, our method still achieves promising results
and lead competitors by a large margin. We notice that KV-MemNN is not performing well on
multi-hop reasoning, perhaps due to explosion of relevant knowledge items.
V anilla-EU:Without topic entity labels, all reasoning-based methods are getting worse on multi-
hop questions. However, supervised embedding gets better in this case, since it just learns to
remember the pair of question and answer entities. According to the statistics in Appendix (Ta-
ble 4), a big portion of questions can be answered by just memorizing the pairs in training data.
That explains why supervised embedding behaves diﬀerently on this dataset.
NTM-EU: The questions in this dataset are paraphrased by neural translation model, which
increases the variety of wordings, and makes the task harder. It is reasonable that all methods are
getting slightly worse results compared to Vanilla-EU. The same explanation applies to supervised
embedding, which is not reasoning but memorizing all the pairs. This is indeed weak generalization
and it takes advantage of the nature of this dataset, but it is not likely to perform well on new
entity pairs.
Audio-EU: This audio dataset is the most challenging one. As mentioned in Sec 6.1, even the same
word can be pronounced in a variety of intonations. It is hard to recognize the entity in audio data,
also hard to tell the question type. It is not surprising that all methods perform worse compared to
text data. Our method achieves 37% on 1-hop audio questions, which is very promising. For 2-hop
and 3-hop questions, our method still outperforms other methods. Clearly, there is large room for
improvement on audio QA. We leave it as future work, and hopefully the MetaQA benchmark
can facilitate more researchers working on QA systems.
6.5 Model ablation
Since our framework uses variational method to jointly learn the entity recognizer and reasoning
graph embedding, we here do the model ablation to answer the following two questions: 1) is the
12

[[page 13]]
reasoning graph embedding approach necessary for inference? 2) is the variational method helpful
for joint training?
Importance of reasoning graph embedding: As the results shown in Table 1, our proposed
VRN outperforms all the other baselines, especially in 3-hop setting. Since this experiment only
compares the reasoning ability, it clearly shows that simply representing the inference rule as linear
combination of reasoning graph entities is not enough.
Improvement of entity recognition with joint training: In Fig 3 we show that using our joint
training framework with variance reduction REINFORCE, we can improve the entity recognition
performance further without the corresponding topic entity label supervision. For 1-hop and 2-hop
questions, our model can improve greatly. While for 3-hop, since the inference task is much harder,
we can only marginally improve the performance. For audio data, we’ve improved by 10% in 1-hop
case, and it is hard to improve further for multi hops. In Table 1 the baselines perform much worse
in the EU setting, due to the absence of joint training.
6.6 Inspection of learning and inference
We study the convergence of our learning algorithm in Appendix E.1. It shows variance reduction
technique helps the convergence signiﬁcantly, while simpler tasks converge better. Also we present
an example inference path with highest score in the reasoning graph in Appendix E.2. To answer
“What are the main languages in David Mandel ﬁlms?”, the model learns to ﬁnd the movieEuroTrip
ﬁrst through directed or wrote relationships, then follow in language to get the correct answer
German.
13

[[page 14]]
References
[1] S¨ oren Auer, Christian Bizer, Georgi Kobilarov, Jens Lehmann, Richard Cyganiak, and Zachary
Ives. Dbpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data. The semantic web , 2007.
[2] Kurt Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen Paritosh, Tim Sturge, and Jamie Taylor. Freebase: a
collaboratively created graph database for structuring human knowledge. In Proceedings of
the 2008 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data , 2008.
[3] James Clarke, Dan Goldwasser, Ming-Wei Chang, and Dan Roth. Driving semantic parsing
from the world’s response. In Proceedings of the fourteenth conference on computational natural
language learning, 2010.
[4] Percy Liang, Michael I Jordan, and Dan Klein. Learning dependency-based compositional
semantics. In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies-Volume 1 , 2011.
[5] Jonathan Berant, Andrew Chou, Roy Frostig, and Percy Liang. Semantic parsing on freebase
from question-answer pairs. In In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, 2013.
[6] Wen-tau Yih, Ming-Wei Chang, Xiaodong He, and Jianfeng Gao. Semantic parsing via staged
query graph generation: Question answering with knowledge base. In Proceedings of the 53rd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 2015.
[7] Jason Weston, Sumit Chopra, and Antoine Bordes. Memory networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1410.3916, 2014.
[8] Alexander Miller, Adam Fisch, Jesse Dodge, Amir-Hossein Karimi, Antoine Bordes, and Ja-
son Weston. Key-value memory networks for directly reading documents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1606.03126, 2016.
[9] Yujia Li, Daniel Tarlow, Marc Brockschmidt, and Richard Zemel. Gated graph sequence neural
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.05493 , 2015.
[10] Richard Socher, Danqi Chen, Christopher D Manning, and Andrew Ng. Reasoning with neural
tensor networks for knowledge base completion. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, pages 926–934, 2013.
[11] Xin Dong, Evgeniy Gabrilovich, Geremy Heitz, Wilko Horn, Ni Lao, Kevin Murphy, Thomas
Strohmann, Shaohua Sun, and Wei Zhang. Knowledge vault: A web-scale approach to proba-
bilistic knowledge fusion. In SIGKDD, 2014.
[12] Kelvin Guu, John Miller, and Percy Liang. Traversing knowledge graphs in vector space. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1506.01094, 2015.
[13] Jesse Dodge, Andreea Gane, Xiang Zhang, Antoine Bordes, Sumit Chopra, Alexander Miller,
Arthur Szlam, and Jason Weston. Evaluating prerequisite qualities for learning end-to-end
dialog systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.06931 , 2015.
14

[[page 15]]
[14] Delip Rao, Paul McNamee, and Mark Dredze. Entity linking: Finding extracted entities in
a knowledge base. In Multi-source, multilingual information extraction and summarization ,
pages 93–115. Springer, 2013.
[15] Tom Kwiatkowski, Eunsol Choi, Yoav Artzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. Scaling semantic parsers
with on-the-ﬂy ontology matching. In EMNLP, 2013.
[16] Chen Liang, Jonathan Berant, Quoc Le, Kenneth D Forbus, and Ni Lao. Neural symbolic
machines: Learning semantic parsers on freebase with weak supervision. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1611.00020, 2016.
[17] Ankit Kumar, Ozan Irsoy, Jonathan Su, James Bradbury, Robert English, Brian Pierce, Pe-
ter Ondruska, Ishaan Gulrajani, and Richard Socher. Ask me anything: Dynamic memory
networks for natural language processing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.07285 , 2015.
[18] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Jason Weston, Rob Fergus, et al. End-to-end memory networks. In
Advances in neural information processing systems , pages 2440–2448, 2015.
[19] Z. Yang, X. He, J. Gao, L. Deng, and A.J. Smola. Stacked attention networks for image
question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.02274 , 2015.
[20] Antoine Bordes, Sumit Chopra, and Jason Weston. Question answering with subgraph em-
beddings. arXiv preprint arXiv:1406.3676 , 2014.
[21] Arvind Neelakantan, Quoc V Le, Martin Abadi, Andrew McCallum, and Dario Amodei. Learn-
ing a natural language interface with neural programmer. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.08945 ,
2016.
[22] Richard Socher, Alex Perelygin, Jean Y Wu, Jason Chuang, Christopher D Manning, An-
drew Y Ng, and Christopher Potts. Recursive deep models for semantic compositionality over
a sentiment treebank. In EMNLP, 2013.
[23] Ozan Irsoy and Claire Cardie. Deep recursive neural networks for compositionality in language.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , pages 2096–2104, 2014.
[24] Lili Mou, Ge Li, Lu Zhang, Tao Wang, and Zhi Jin. Convolutional neural networks over
tree structures for programming language processing. In Proceedings of the Thirtieth AAAI
Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence , 2016.
[25] David K Duvenaud, Dougal Maclaurin, Jorge Iparraguirre, Rafael Bombarell, Timothy Hirzel,
Al´ an Aspuru-Guzik, and Ryan P Adams. Convolutional networks on graphs for learning
molecular ﬁngerprints. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , pages 2215–
2223, 2015.
[26] Hanjun Dai, Bo Dai, and Le Song. Discriminative embeddings of latent variable models for
structured data. In ICML, 2016.
[27] James Atwood and Don Towsley. Diﬀusion-convolutional neural networks. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 1993–2001, 2016.
15

[[page 16]]
[28] Daniel D. Johnson. Learning graphical state transitions. In Proceedings of the 5th International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR’17, 2017.
[29] Arvind Neelakantan, Benjamin Roth, and Andrew McCallum. Compositional vector space
models for knowledge base completion. arXiv preprint arXiv:1504.06662 , 2015.
[30] Kristina Toutanova, Xi Victoria Lin, Wen-tau Yih, Hoifung Poon, and Chris Quirk. Compo-
sitional learning of embeddings for relation paths in knowledge bases and text. In Proceedings
of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , volume 1, pages
1434–1444, 2016.
[31] Yi Yang and Ming-Wei Chang. S-mart: Novel tree-based structured learning algorithms ap-
plied to tweet entity linking. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.08075 , 2016.
[32] Ronald J. Williams. Simple statistical gradient-following algorithms for connectionist rein-
forcement learning. Machine Learning, 8:229–256, 1992.
[33] Andriy Mnih and Karol Gregor. Neural variational inference and learning in belief networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1402.0030 , 2014.
[34] Panupong Pasupat and Percy Liang. Compositional semantic parsing on semi-structured ta-
bles. arXiv preprint arXiv:1508.00305 , 2015.
[35] Di He, Yingce Xia, Tao Qin, Liwei Wang, Nenghai Yu, Tieyan Liu, and Wei-Ying Ma. Dual
learning for machine translation. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages
820–828, 2016.
[36] Abadi Martın, Ashish Agarwal, Paul Barham, Eugene Brevdo, and et. al. Tensorﬂow: Large-
scale machine learning on heterogeneous systems. 2015.
16

[[page 17]]
Appendix
A Details of the MetaQA benchmark
V anilla 1-hop dataset: Our Vanilla 1-hop dataset is derived from the WikiMovies dataset.
Following the settings in [8], we use the wiki entities branch of WikiMovies. To make it easier
to use, we apply an automatic entity labeling on the dataset. Speciﬁcally, we parse each question
with left-to-right largest consumption of entity names and then normal words, and highlight the
entity in question with a pair of square brackets. A few entity names are identical to normal words,
which will lead to “fake entities” to be labeled in the question. For simplicity, we just remove those
ambiguous questions, which makes our Vanilla 1-hop text dataset slightly smaller than WikiMovies.
We also provide corresponding question type identiﬁer ﬁles for train / validation/ test sets.
V anilla 2-hop dataset: The WikiMovies dataset has 1-hop questions only, which inspires us to
generate new datasets for 2-hop and 3-hop reasoning. For 2-hop questions, we design 21 question
types in total:
• Actor / Writer / Director to Movie to Actor / Writer / Director / Year / Language / Genre
(18 types)
• Movie to Actor / Writer / Director to Movie (3 types)
Following the way that WikiMovies is generated, we design 10 question templates and uniformly
randomly sample from them when generating questions.
V anilla 3-hop dataset: For 3-hop questions, we don’t consider awkward question types: Actor /
Writer / Director to Movie to Actor / Writer / Director to Movie, since they’re counter-intuitive
and quite confusing. For example: The directors of the movies acted by [@entity] have directed
which movies? Instead, we construct meaningful 3-hop questions in 15 question types:
• Movie to Actor / Writer / Director to Movie to Actor / Writer / Director / Year / Language
/ Genre (diﬀerent roles for the former and latter roles)
NTM datasets: We use one of the state-of-the-art machine translation models, named dual
learning for neural translation model [35], to generate 1-hop, 2-hop and 3-hop NTM datasets. We
ﬁrstly translate the corresponding Vanilla dataset from English to French, and then translate it
back to English with beam search. We guarantee that the topic entity can still be found in the
question. By doing so, we can automatically paraphrase the questions, which introduces variations
in question wordings and thus leads to more realistic scenario.
Audio datasets: To generate 1-hop, 2-hop and 3-hop audio datasets, we use Google text-to-speech
API 4 to read all questions in Vanilla datasets and save the audio as mp3 ﬁles. It takes time to
process hundreds of thousands of audio ﬁles. For convenience, we also provide extracted MFCC
features for each question.
B Question samples
In the MetaQA benchmark, we have in total 21 types of 2-hop questions, and 15 types of 3-hop
questions. The exact question types and examples are listed in Table 5 and Table 6.
4We use the API from https://github.com/pndurette/gTTS.
17

[[page 18]]
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
# mini-batch
0
10
20
30
40
50Total loss
Convergence of variational training
Vanilla: 1-hop
Vanilla: 2-hop
Vanilla: 3-hop
(a) Convergence on Vanilla datasets
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
# mini-batch
0
20
40
60
80Total loss
Convergence of variational training
NTM: 1-hop
NTM: 2-hop
NTM: 3-hop (b) Convergence on NTM datasets
Figure 4: Convergence of our VRN on diﬀerent text datasets. Here X-axis represents # mini-batch,
and Y-axis reports the total loss for learning θ1,θ 2,ψ and baseline b(q,a ).
Vanilla:	What	are	the	primary	languages	in	the	
movies	directed	byDavid	Mandel?
NTM:	What	are	the	main	languages	in	David	
Mandel	films?
Q: A:German
EuroTrip
directed
starred_actors
Jeff	Schaffer Alec	Berg
written_by
wrote
German
Scott	Mechlowicz
directed_by
directed_by
written_by
in_language
...…
David	Mandel
0.34 0.72
14.87
22.19
Figure 5: Example of the learned 2-hop inference.
18

[[page 19]]
Table 3: Statistics of the datasets in the MetaQA benchmark.
# of Questions
1-hop 2-hop 3-hop
Train 96,106 118,980 114,196
Validation 9,992 14,872 14,274
Test 9,947 14,872 14,274
Table 4: Ratios of new entities and new entity pairs in each dataset.
1-hop 2-hop 3-hop
New entities in validation (%) 20.0 5.0 0.1
New entities in test (%) 20.6 4.7 0.1
New entity pairs in validation (%) 34.1 28.1 32.1
New entity pairs in test (%) 34.5 28.6 32.2
C Visualization of audio data
We visualize the MFCC features of two questions sharing the same entity, as in Fig 6. It is clear
that the entity part (highlighted by red dotted lines) is similar but not exactly the same. This
shows the diﬃculty of handling the audio questions.
D Details of CNN embedding
To answer audio questions, we need information of both the topic entity in question, and the
question type, i.e. what is asking about that entity. So we train two CNNs with diﬀerent objectives:
one is to predict the topic entity, and the other is to predict the question type. We use the same
input (MFCC features of audio questions) for both CNNs, and only use training data to ﬁt them.
We treat the activations of the second last layer (before softmax layer) as the embeddings of audio
questions.
E More experiment results
E.1 Convergence of VRN
We visualize the training loss in Fig 4 to get an idea of how it converges. We can see using the
variance reduction technique, the training converges very fast. Also as expected, for simpler tasks
involving fewer inference steps, they can converge to a better solution.
E.2 Visualization of the learned reasoning rule
To check what the reasoning graph have learned, we visualize the inference path with highest score
in the reasoning-graph. Speciﬁcally, for 1-hop answers, we simply check the compatibility between
19

[[page 20]]
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5
Time
3
2
1
0
1
2
3
(a) MFCC features of question: What ﬁlms did Dolly Parton star in?
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5
Time
3
2
1
0
1
2
3
(b) MFCC features of question: Which movies was Dolly Parton the writer
of?
0 0.15 0.3 0.45 0.6 0.75 0.9 1.1
Time
3
2
1
0
1
2
3
(c) MFCC features of the
shared entity in both ques-
tions: Dolly Parton.
Figure 6: Visualization of the MFCC features of two questions sharing the same entity. The red
dotted box highlights the entity parts.
edge type and question embedding; for answers with multi-hop, we traverse from answer to topic
entity, and take the edge whose embedding has maximum compatibility with the question.
We show one 2-hop inference result in Fig 5. To answer the NTM question correctly, one need
to use either directed or wrote relation to ﬁnd the movie EuroTrip ﬁrst, then follow in language to
get the correct answer German.
20

[[page 21]]
Table 5: Examples of the 21 types of 2-hop questions in the MetaQA benchmark.
Question Type Count Example
Movie to Actor to Movie 11,709 The actor of Ruby Cairo also starred in which
ﬁlms?
Movie to Director to Movie 11,412 Which ﬁlms share the same director of Vampires
Suck?
Movie to Writer to Movie 8,817 Which movies have the same screenwriter of The
Pianist?
Actor to Movie to Actor 9,547 Who co-starred with Joel Evans?
Actor to Movie to Director 9,241 Who co-starred with Carlo Ninchi?
Actor to Movie to Genre 8,548 What are the genres of the movies acted by
Melora Hardin?
Actor to Movie to Language 3,067 What are the main languages in Molly Windsor
starred movies
Actor to Movie to Writer 8,499 Who wrote the movies acted by James Madio?
Actor to Movie to Year 10,072 When did the movies acted by Masato Hagiwara
release?
Director to Movie to Actor 4,800 Who acted in the ﬁlms directed by Jerry Lon-
don?
Director to Movie to Director 1,797 Who directed movies together with Chad Sta-
helski?
Director to Movie to Genre 5,205 What types are the ﬁlms directed by Phillip
Noyce?
Director to Movie to Language 1,850 What are the languages spoken in the movies
directed by Peter Sellers?
Director to Movie to Writer 3,688 Who wrote the movies directed by Gary McK-
endry?
Director to Movie to Year 6,026 When were the ﬁlms directed by Jonathan Kahn
released?
Writer to Movie to Actor 8,447 Who acted in the ﬁlms written by Travis Milloy?
Writer to Movie to Director 7,342 Who directed the ﬁlms written by Nick Damici?
Writer to Movie to Genre 8,633 What types are the movies written by Amza Pel-
lea?
Writer to Movie to Language 2,629 What are the primary languages in the ﬁlms
written by John Musker?
Writer to Movie to Writer 7,142 Who wrote ﬁlms together with Jonah Hill?
Writer to Movie to Year 10,226 When did the movies directed by Paul Linke re-
lease?
21

[[page 22]]
Table 6: Examples of the 15 types of 3-hop questions in the MetaQA benchmark.
Question Type Count Example
Movie to Actor to Movie to Director 11,600 Who directed ﬁlms that share actors with
the ﬁlm Last Passenger?
Movie to Actor to Movie to Genre 11,513 What types are the ﬁlms starred by actors
in Jack Reacher?
Movie to Actor to Movie to Language 8,735 What are the languages spoken in the
ﬁlms starred by Blade actors?
Movie to Actor to Movie to Writer 11,516 Which person wrote the movies starred by
the actors in Ludwig?
Movie to Actor to Movie to Year 11,688 When did the movies starred by Witch-
board actors release?
Movie to Director to Movie to Actor 10,784 Who acted in the ﬁlms directed by the di-
rector of The Road?
Movie to Director to Movie to Genre 10,822 What types are the ﬁlms directed by the
director of Holly?
Movie to Director to Movie to Language 5,909 The movies that share directors with the
movie Eﬃ Briest were in which languages?
Movie to Director to Movie to Writer 11,005 Who wrote ﬁlms that share directors with
the ﬁlm Male and Female?
Movie to Director to Movie to Year 11,350 When did the ﬁlms release whose directors
also directed Date Movie?
Movie to Writer to Movie to Actor 8,216 Who acted in the movies written by the
writer of Bottle Rocket?
Movie to Writer to Movie to Director 8,734 Who directed ﬁlms for the writer of Sugar?
Movie to Writer to Movie to Genre 8,212 What types are the movies written by the
screenwriter of The Gospel?
Movie to Writer to Movie to Language 3,908 What languages are the ﬁlms that share
writers with The Bat in?
Movie to Writer to Movie to Year 8,752 When did the ﬁlms release whose screen-
writers also wrote Crash?
22