[[page 1]]
Exploiting Hybrid Semantics of Relation Paths for Multi-hop Question
Answering Over Knowledge Graphs
Zile Qiao1, Wei Y e2,†, Tong Zhang1,3, Tong Mo1
Weiping Li1, Shikun Zhang 2
1 School of Software and Microelectronics, Peking University
2 National Engineering Research Center for Software Engineering, Peking University
3 TencentMT Oteam, China
{zileq, wye, zhangtong17, zhangsk}@pku.edu.cn
{motong, wpli}@ss.pku.edu.cn
Abstract
Answering natural language questions on
knowledge graphs (KGQA) remains a great
challenge in terms of understanding complex
questions via multi-hop reasoning. Previ-
ous efforts usually exploit large-scale entity-
related text corpora or knowledge graph (KG)
embeddings as auxiliary information to facil-
itate answer selection. However, the rich
semantics implied in off-the-shelf relation
paths between entities is far from well ex-
plored. This paper proposes improving multi-
hop KGQA by exploiting relation paths’ hy-
brid semantics. Speciﬁcally, we integrate
explicit textual information and implicit KG
structural features of relation paths based on
a novel rotate-and-scale entity link prediction
framework. Extensive experiments on three
existing KGQA datasets demonstrate the supe-
riority of our method, especially in multi-hop
scenarios. Further investigation conﬁrms our
method’s systematical coordination between
questions and relation paths to identify answer
entities.
1 Introduction
Answering natural language questions on knowl-
edge graphs (KGQA) is a challenging task (Bol-
lacker et al., 2008; Tanon et al., 2016). Recent
works mainly pay attention to a complex scenario,
namely multi-hop KGQA (Sun et al., 2018; Hu
et al., 2018; Saxena et al., 2020; Atzeni et al., 2021),
where sophisticated reasoning over multiple edges
(or relations) is required to infer the correct answer
in the KG (Chen et al., 2019).
The main challenge of multi-hop KGQA is to
understand complicated questions and reason un-
der incomplete KG, usually without supervision
signals at the intermediate reasoning steps (Lan
et al., 2021). One common strategy to alleviate
this dilemma is to exploit auxiliary information
to enrich knowledge representation. For example,
†Corresponding authors.
researchers have exploited entity-related textual
corpus (e.g., from Wikipedia) as additional nodes
in graph-based neural models (Sun et al., 2018,
2019a), or directly encoded them into enhanced
entity representations (Han et al., 2020). A more
recent effort, namely EmbedKGQA (Saxena et al.,
2020), leverages implicit yet rich information in
KG embeddings to answer complex questions over
sparse KG. Unfortunately, the relation paths, which
may contain beneﬁcial supplementary information
to characterize a candidate target entity for a topic
entity in a question, are commonly underutilized.
To the best of our knowledge, Yan et al. (2021)
is the only effort involving exploiting the off-the-
shelf relation path information. They use relation
paths as simple coarse-grained input features by
concatenating their text descriptions. From a more
ﬁne-grained and systematic perspective, given a
question as a semantic view for the implied rela-
tional fact of a <topic entity, target entity> pair, a
relation path can serve as another highly-related
yet complementary one.
Therefore, we propose coordinating the question
view and the relation path view to identify target en-
tities more accurately. To make this idea work, we
face two main challenges: 1) how to accurately rep-
resent relation paths and 2) how to fuse a relation
path representation with the question representa-
tion.
For the ﬁrst problem, we propose exploiting hy-
brid features of relation paths by integrating both
explicit textual semantics and implicit KG embed-
ding features. Firstly, previous works have shown
the merits of introducing entity-related texts (Sun
et al., 2018; Xiong et al., 2019; Sun et al., 2019a;
Han et al., 2020), while we conjecture that relation-
related texts (e.g., relation names or descriptions)
can potentially offer helpful clues to answer a ques-
tion. Meanwhile, relation-related texts are naturally
available and on a much smaller scale compared
with entity-related texts. Therefore, we utilize the
arXiv:2209.00870v1  [cs.CL]  2 Sep 2022

[[page 2]]
explicit text description of a relation path (a relation
set) as an extra feature of KGQA models to facili-
tate target entity selection. Secondly, in addition to
a text description, a relation also has a KG-based
representation (relation embedding) that implicitly
contains rich KG structural semantics. Therefore,
we introduce RotatE, a KG embedding model that
can well support relation composition by entity
rotation in the complex vector space (Sun et al.,
2019b). With RotatE, we can synthesize relation
path representation by performing simple element-
wise multiplication of individual relation embed-
dings. Finally, we characterize beneﬁcial knowl-
edge in candidate relation paths by fusing their
structural and textual representations in a question-
aware manner, which also facilitates ﬁltering appro-
priate relation paths semantically consistent with
the question among numerous noisy candidates.
For the second problem, inspired by (Saxena
et al., 2020), we project the well-designed question-
aware mixed representations of relation paths, as
well as the question representation, into a rotating
entity link prediction framework. However, our
pilot experiments showed that the rotating-based
link prediction did not yield the robust performance
we expected. Further investigation revealed that the
modulus of entity embeddings by RotatE mattered.
For example, compared with 1-hop answer entities,
2-hop answer entities more signiﬁcantly differ from
their topic entities on modulus. This observation
inspires us to match the integrated semantics of
questions and relation paths by both entity rotation
and entity modulus scaling. After introducing an
entity modulus scaling mechanism, we achieve a
promising rotate-and-scale prediction framework,
which better coordinate knowledge of questions
and relation paths for KGQA.
Extensive experiments on three existing KGQA
datasets (WebQuestionSP (tau Yih et al., 2016),
ComplexWebQuestions (Talmor and Berant, 2018),
and MetaQA (Zhang et al., 2018)) verify the su-
periority of our method, especially in multi-hop
scenarios. Our contributions are as follows:
• We propose a KGQA method from a novel
perspective of exploiting hybrid features of
the off-the-shelf relation paths.
• By systematically fusing explicit Textual in-
formation and implicit KG Embedding fea-
tures of candidate Relation Paths based on
a novel rotate-and-scale KG link prediction
framework, our method ( TERP) achieves
competitive performance on three KGQA
datasets, especially in the multi-hop scenario.
• We reveal that questions and relation paths,
as two facets of their corresponding relations
between a topic entity and a target entity, are
highly-relevant yet complementary informa-
tion for question answering.
2 Problem Statement
KGQA is the task of factoid question answering
over a knowledge graph. A knowledge graph is
denoted asG⊆E×R×E , whereE is the set
of all entities in the KG and R is the set of all
relations. A triple can be formally described as
(h,r,t ) , where h,t ∈E and r∈R is the rela-
tion between them. Given a natural language ques-
tionQ =
(
w1,...,w |q|
)
and a topic entityh∈E ,
which should be present in the question, the task
of KGQA is to extract answer entitiesca∈E that
answer the questionQ correctly fromG. In prac-
tice, we perform entity linking on the questionQ,
producing a set of topic entitiesH.
3 Methodology
3.1 Overview
In this section, we mathematically present our
TERP method in detail. Our main idea is to coordi-
nate the question view and the relation path view
to identify target entities more accurately. Figure 1
shows an overview of our approach. Firstly, we
obtain the representations of the entities and rela-
tions in KG via a KG embedding module and the
representations of questions via a Question En-
coder. Then, we use a Path Encoder to encode
the relation path by integrating explicit textual se-
mantics and implicit KG embedding features of re-
lation paths. An attention mechanism is employed
to choose the appropriate relation paths semanti-
cally consistent with the question among numerous
noisy candidate paths. A Rotate-and-Scale mod-
ule projects the representations of the question and
the chosen relation paths into the complex space
of KG embeddings. Finally, an Entity Predictor
scores all candidate entities in a link prediction
manner.
3.2 KG Embedding
We ﬁrst obtain the representations of entities and
relations via a KG Embedding module. To mine the

[[page 3]]
nationality
Albert Einstein education institution ETH Zurich
contains
employment
tenure
Q : What college did Albert Einstein go?
Path1 :employment  àtenure
Path2: education àinstitution
Path3: nationality àcontain 		𝑝̅! 		𝑝̅" 		𝑝̅#
Relation Embeddings
Text Description
Question Encoder
Entity Predictor
Path Encoder
Fuse
Rotate&Scale
𝑚 𝜃
Attention
Albert Einstein
ETH ZurichKG:
Figure 1: An overview of our TERP model. A question encoder is employed to extract the features from textual
question. A path encoder is adopted to capture the consistent yet complementary information in implicit relation
embeddings (i.e., structural features) and explicit text description (i.e., textual features) of potential relation paths
for the question. Then, the Rotate and Scale mechanism projects the features from question and relation paths to a
rotation angleθ and a scaling factorm , respectively. Finally, a entity predictor scores all candidate entities.
implicit KG structural semantics of relation paths,
we adopt RotatE (Sun et al., 2019b) to model the
composition of relations.
RotatE represents entities as complex vectors
and relations as rotations in complex vector space.
Given h,t ∈ Eand r ∈ R, RotatE generates
eh,e r,e t∈ Cd and deﬁnes a scoring function:
sr(h,t ) =φ(h,r,t ) =−‖eh◦er−et‖, (1)
where|eri| = 1, and◦ denotes the Hadmard (or
element-wise) product. RotatE can model the com-
position patterns. A relation er3 = exp(iθ3) is a
combination of other two relationser1 =exp(iθ1)
ander2 =exp(iθ2) if and only if:
er3 =er1◦er2. (2)
3.3 Question Encoder
Following previous work (Saxena et al., 2020; Shi
et al., 2021; Atzeni et al., 2021), the question en-
coding model aims to embed a natural language
question Q to a ﬁxed dimension vector q ∈ Rd
with a pre-trained language model.
q = Encoderavg(Q), (3)
where avg denotes the average pooling strategy.
3.4 Path Encoder
In addition to the question, we further model the
explicit and implicit semantics in relation path be-
tween a topic entity and a candidate entity with a
path encoding module. Our intuition behind this
is that the textual semantics in the relation path, as
well as the corresponding composed pre-trained re-
lation embeddings produced by RotatE, are supple-
mentary information to the question. Considering
that the same relation path may have different se-
mantics in different query contexts, we additionally
add the question text before the textual description
of the relation path. Formally, given a natural lan-
guage questionQ, a topic entityh and a candidate
entityc, we can obtain the shortest paths between
h andc. For a single pathrp1,r p2,··· rpk , we gen-
erate a textual relation pathPt, in which every text
description of relation in the path is surrounded by
special tokens< r>,</ r>. We concatenate the
textual question Q with the textual relation path
Pt and feed them into the encoder to extract the
textual features of the explicit relation paths. Mean-
while, we can obtain the implicit semantics from
the embeddings of the relationserp1,e rp2,··· erpk,
which carry structural features learn by RotatE. The
hybrid representation ¯p of the relation path is pro-

[[page 4]]
duced via fusing both explicit textual representa-
tionpt and implicit KG embedding representation
pl with an FFN:
¯pt = Encoderavg(Pt :Q),
¯pl =erp
1◦erp
2◦···◦ erp
k,
¯p = FFN(¯pt, ¯pl).
(4)
One underlying challenge is that there could be
multiple shortest paths between a topic entity and
an answer entity. In TERP, we use a scaled dot-
product attention mechanism to select the appropri-
ate relation paths that are semantically consistent
with the question.
p = Attention(qW1, ¯ ptW2, ¯ p), (5)
where ¯ pt and ¯ pdenote two version of representa-
tions of all the candidate paths for a given (h,c )
pair. W1, W2 are learnable matrices.
3.5 Rotate-and-Scale
However, in our preliminary exploration, directly
using RotatE as our KG embedding module do not
yield a robust performance. Further investigation
revealed that the underlying reason is that the mod-
ulus of entities varies in RotatE. If there is an edge
between two entities, they will have similar modu-
lus because the modulus of relation representations
are ﬁxed to be 1 in RotatE. However, in a multi-hop
KBQA scenario, the multi-hop relation path could
amplify the difference between the topic and an-
swer entities, hence it can be challenging to match
the answer only by rotation transformation.
To this end, we propose a rotate-and-scale frame-
work to model the two views of implied relational
fact of a <topic entity, target entity> pair as a rota-
tion transformation and a scaling transformation in
the complex space. For a natural language question
Q, two independent feedforward networks (FFN)
are used to generate the rotation transformation
θq∈ Rd and the scaling transformationmq∈ Rd:
θq = FFN(q),
mq = FFN(q). (6)
Then, we combine the two transformations into
the ﬁnal representationrq for the question, which
contains a real part Re and an imaginary part Im
in the complex space.
Re(rq) =mq◦ cos (θq),
Im(rq) =mq◦ sin (θq). (7)
In this way, our rotate-and-scale framework can
serve as the bridge between entity representations
of RotatE and representations of textual questions.
We handle relation paths in a same way.
θp = FFN(p),
mp = FFN(p),
Re(rp) =mp◦ cos (θp),
Im(rp) =mp◦ sin (θp),
(8)
where θp ∈ Rd and mp ∈ Rd are rotation and
scaling in the complex space respectively. As illus-
trated in Section 5.2, the rotate-and-scale mecha-
nism improves the performance of KGQA with a
large margin.
3.6 Entity Predictor
With the representations produced above, an en-
tity predictor is used to score all candidate entities.
Given a questionQ, the candidate pathsP , a topic
entityh∈E and the candidate entity c∈E , the
score function is calculated as:
sq(h,c ) =−‖eh◦rq−ec‖,
sp(h,c ) =−‖eh◦rp−ec‖, (9)
wheresq andsp denote the scores from the question
view and the relation path view, respectively. The
ﬁnal score iss = (1−λ)sq(h,c )+λsp(h,c ), where
λ is a hyper-parameter. In training, the score s is
calculated among N candidate entities sampled
from the KG, whereN is a hyper-parameter.
The overall training objective combines the
Cross-entropy (CE) lossLques andLpath for the
sq andsp, respectively.
L =Lques +Lpath
= CE(sq,targets ) + CE(sp,targets ), (10)
wheretargets denotes the ground truth label.
3.7 Inference
To address the challenge that huge numbers of
paths may exist, we propose a two-stage inference
strategy to reduce the computational cost. At stage
1, given a questionQ, a topic entityh and all the en-
tities in the question-speciﬁed subgraphC⊆E , we
ﬁrst computesq(h,c ) for eachc∈C . Then we se-
lect top-k candidate entities among them according
tosq(h,c ). At stage 2, we compute sp(h,c ) only
for the entities recalled in stage 1 and calculate the
ﬁnal scores from them. For questions with more

[[page 5]]
than one topic entity, we simply average the cor-
respondingsq andsp calculated by different topic
entities for each candidatec.
This two-stage answer acquisition strategy can
empirically deliver a 15-40× inference speed-up on
different datasets without sacriﬁcing performance.
4 Experimental Settings
4.1 Datasets
We evaluate our model on three widely-used
KGQA datasets, MetaQA (Zhang et al., 2018),
WebQuestionsSP (tau Yih et al., 2016) datasets,
and Complex WebQuestions (Talmor and Berant,
2018).
MetaQA is a multi-hop KGQA dataset with
more than 400k questions, providing a KG with
135k triples, 43k entities and 9 kinds of relations.
WebQuestionSP(WebQSP) is a large scale
multi-hop KGQA dataset with 4,737 questions. Fol-
lowing Sun et al. (2018, 2019a), we restrict the KG
to be a subset of Freebase which contains all facts
that are within 2-hops of any entity mentioned in
the questions of WebQSP. Then we use the same
PPR algorithm as in Sun et al. (2018) to retrieve
a subgraph for each question. We further split the
testset on WebQSP into 1- and 2-hop sets based
on the inferential chain annotation (tau Yih et al.,
2016) in the dataset. Note that this split is just for
statistics convenience on testsets. During inference,
we do not know whether a question is 1-hop or 2-
hop, which is different from the MetaQA settings.
Following Sun et al. (2018), we remove half of the
triples in the KG to simulate an incomplete KG.
We call this setting WebQSP-50. We use the same
train/dev/test split as Sun et al. (2018).
ComplexWebQuestions(CompWebQ) is cre-
ated by expanding the question entities or adding
constraints to the answers in WebQuestionsSP. The
questions require up to 4-hops of reasoning on
the KG (He et al., 2021).We handle CompWebQ
in the same way as WebQSP except that we limit
each subgraph to a maximum of 2000 entities in
CompWebQ. On average, there are 1349 entities in
each subgraph and the recall of answers is 78.6% .
4.2 Implementation Details
We use the open source implementation of
LibKGE (Broscheit et al., 2020) to train the KG em-
beddings. Following Saxena et al. (2020), the pre-
trained KG embeddings are frozen for WebQSP
and CompWebQ in training, while tuneable for
MetaQA. We use a pre-trained RoBERTa (Liu et al.,
2019) as the text encoder. The size of a mini-batch
is set to 10. The learning rate is 3e-5 and we adopt
the Adam optimizer withβ2 = 0.998. The number
of candidate entities for WebQSP and CompWebQ
is 20000. For MetaQA, we use all entities in KG
as candidate entities. Other hyper-parameters are
the same as the default RoBERTa-base conﬁgura-
tion. The weight λ for the entity predictor is 0.6.
The number of candidate entities retrieved in stage
1 during inference is empirically set to be 15 for
WebQSP and MetaQA, and 30 for CompWebQ.
4.3 Baselines
PullNet (Sun et al., 2019a) iteratively retrieves a
subgraph from KG to create a question-speciﬁc
sub-graph and rank the entities by a variant of
graph CNN (Kipf and Welling, 2017); Embed-
KGQA (Saxena et al., 2020) leverages KG embed-
dings to perform multi-hop KGQA. It adopts Com-
plEx (Trouillon et al., 2016) KG embeddings to
score the entities; EMQL (Sun et al., 2020) lever-
ages query embedding method and uses these em-
beddings to obtain the answers; TransferNet (Shi
et al., 2021) leverages free texts retrieved from the
textual corpus and pre-deﬁned constrained pred-
icates to perform multi-hop reasoning; BERT-
KGQA (Yan et al., 2021) leverages textual infor-
mation carried by the nodes and edges to perform
KGQA. We choose the original version without
additional annotated data for a fair comparison;
SQALER (Atzeni et al., 2021) addresses KGQA
by ﬁrst performing multi-hop reasoning on the KG
and then reﬁning the result with logical reasoning.
5 Experiment Results
5.1 Main Results
Table 1 shows the performance of the baseline mod-
els and our methods on three datasets under differ-
ent settings. We achieve the best performance on
four of six tasks. Here we mainly compare our
TERP with two lines of works: embedding-based
methods (e.g., EmbedKGQA) and path searching
methods (e.g., SQALER and TransferNet).
Comparison with embedding-based methods.
Except for the similar performance on the MetaQA
1-hop task, TERP signiﬁcantly outperforms Em-
bedKGQA on the other tasks. The results verify
the effectiveness of incorporating relation path in-
formation into the link prediction framework.

[[page 6]]
Models MetaQA WebQSP WebQSP-50 CompWebQ1-hop 2-hop 3-hop
PullNet* 97.0 99.9 91.4 68.1 51.9 47.2
EmbedKGQA 97.5 98.8 94.8 66.6 54.3 † 44.7†
EMQL 97.2 98.6 99.1 75.5 - -
TransferNet* 97.5 100 100 71.4 - 48.6
BERT-KGQA - - - 71.2 56.7 -
SQALER* - 99.9 99.9 76.1 55.2 -
TERP(ours) 97.5 99.4 98.9 76.8 57.0 49.2
Table 1: Main results on MetaQA, WebQSP, WebQSP-50 and CompWebQ. The numbers reported in the table are
hits@1. “†” denotes the result of our re-implementation. Methods that use external corpora are annotated with “*”.
Comparison with path searching methods. Gen-
erally, TERP performs better on WebQSP and
ComWebQ, while SQALER and TransferNet are
more competitive on MetaQA. The possible reason
is that the link prediction framework relies on high-
quality KG embeddings, consequently being more
effective for knowledge graphs of a larger scale.
Note that the scale of WebQSP’s knowledge graph
is far more extensive than that of MetaQA’s (1.8 M
v.s. 43 K of entity number, and 6101 v.s. 9 of rela-
tion type number). In addition to better trained KG
embeddings, the 6101 relation types of WebQSP
mean 6101 relation representations, introducing
much richer semantics of relations, compared with
the 9 relation representations of MetaQA. The dif-
ference between these knowledge graphs roughly
explains the comparison results. Furthermore, the
results on more challenging tasks (WebQSP and
CompWebQ) verify the effectiveness of integrat-
ing explicit textual information and implicit KG
structural information in KGQA.
Note that several baselines (EMQL, BERT-
KGQA and PullNet) can not accurately fall into
the above two categories. Compared with them,
TERP also achieves competitive results, e.g., the
superior hits@1 scores in 4 of the 6 test sets.
5.2 Effectiveness of Roate-and-Scale
Mechanism
To reveal how the rotate-and-scale mechanism
helps answer reasoning, we replace it with gen-
eral ComplEx-based matching and RotatE-based
(without scaling) matching, achieving two model
variants named w/ ComplEx and w/ RotatE re-
spectively. Table 2 contains two groups of results
corresponding to whether or not hybrid features of
relation paths is introduced. The observations on
the two groups are generally similar, and here we
mainly analyze the results in the ﬁrst group.
First, w/ RotatE demonstrates a notable perfor-
mance degradation compared with w/ ComplEx,
suggesting that simply replacing ComplEx with
RotatE in the link prediction-based KGQA frame-
work, can not satisfy our initial desire to exert re-
lation composition capabilities of RotatE. Second,
by incorporating the scaling module into RotatE,
w/ RotatE&Scale surpasses w/ ComplEx with a
signiﬁcant margin. This observation veriﬁes that
modulus scaling is necessary to capture relation
semantics under the hypothesis of using complex
vector rotating to match complex multi-hop ques-
tions. Third, the superiority of w/ RotatE&Scale
over w/ ComplEx is more visible on 2-hop ques-
tions than that on 1-hop ones, proving that w/ Ro-
tatE&Scale more accurately distinguish relation
path semantics.
5.3 Overall Impacts of Relation Paths’
Hybrid Features
Another characteristic of TERP is using hybrid fea-
tures of relation paths. In Table 2, the models of the
second group are ones with relation path features.
By comparing the results of the ﬁrst group and
second group in Table 2, we ﬁnd 1) incorporating
relation path information can consistently improve
answering questions of different hops under both
complete and incomplete KGs, and 2) the improve-
ments on 2-hop questions surpass that on 1-hop
ones by a large margin, verifying the potential of
relation path information for multi-hop reasoning.
5.4 Ablation Study of Relation Paths’ Hybrid
Features
We then perform an ablation study on the hybrid
features. Table 3 shows two groups of results corre-
sponding to using only textual representations and
only structural representations of relation paths,

[[page 7]]
Models WebQSP WebQSP-50
All 1-hop 2-hop All 1-hop 2-hop
w/o path
w/ ComplEx 72.1 83.6 52.3 53.6 63.8 36.0
w/ RotatE 67.5 79.7 46.5 49.8 60.5 31.4
w/ RotatE&Scale 74.6 84.5 57.5 55.5 64.6 39.8
w/ path
w/ ComplEx 73.6(+1.5) 84.6(+0.9) 54.6(+2.3) 54.6(+1.0) 64.2(+0.4) 38.0(+2.0)
w/ RotatE 69.3(+1.8) 80.5(+0.8) 50.4(+3.9) 51.0(+0.4) 60.6(+0.1) 34.2(+2.8)
w/ RotatE&Scale 76.8(+2.2) 84.9(+0.4) 62.6(+5.1) 57.0(+1.5) 65.1(+0.5) 43.1(+3.3)
Table 2: Hits@1 on WebQSP datasets in full KG settings (WebQSP) and incomplete KG settings (WebQSP-50).
“All”, “1-hop”, and “2-hop” denote the statistics of 1&2-, 1-, and 2-hop questions of the same task. w/ path and
w/o path denote whether the model is equipped with the path encoder. “w/ ComplEx” and “w/ RotatE” denote the
models use ComplEx and RotatE, respectively. “w/ RotatE&Scale” denotes the TERP model with RotatE and the
scaling strategy. Numbers in the parentheses denote the hit@1 improvements of w/ path over w/o path.
respectively. ComplEx does not support relation
composition, so we only experiment on RotatE and
RotatE&Scale. We have three observations here.
First, both textual and structural features im-
prove model performance, indicating that the two
kinds of relation path information beneﬁt answer
selection. Second, textual information brings more
signiﬁcant enhancements than structural informa-
tion. The reasons are two-fold. On the one hand,
structural information mainly involves multiplica-
tion of relation embedding, which overlaps more
with implicit semantics in the link prediction pro-
cess. On the other hand, textual information pro-
vides more complementary knowledge for link pre-
diction, from another modality in a sense. Finally,
combining them delivers further improvement, ver-
ifying the efﬁcacy of the question-aware fusing
process to capture the hybrid semantics.
5.5 Collaboration between Questions and
Relation Paths
Figure 2: Hits@1 scores for different λ on WebQSP.
The blue, green, and red lines denotes the testsets with
1-, 2-, and 1&2-hop questions, respectively.
Considering that exploiting relation paths also
introduces many spurious ones, the collaboration
of their hybrid features and questions is critical to
balance the positive and negative effects. Therefore,
we ﬁrst analyze the impact of the hyper-parameter
λ, which denotes the weighting strategy between
predicting scores of questions and relation paths.
In Figure 2, the blue, green, and red poly-
lines show the Hits@1 scores of all 1-hop, 2-hop,
and 1&2-hops questions on WebQSP, respectively.
Looking into these three polylines’ trends, we ﬁnd
that our model is best-performed when λ is 0.6,
indicating the textual information can not either be
ignored or overly dependent. In other words, we
need to distinguish necessary features under tolera-
ble noises introduced by a set of off-the-shelf rela-
tion paths. Another interesting observation is that
the upward trend before the peak of the green line
(2-hop questions) is more evident than that of the
blue line (1-hop questions), though their downward
trends after the peak are similar. The reason is that
relation path information is more critical for multi-
hop reasoning, and our method well characterizes
them, hence delivering robust improvements.
To further investigate how relation paths and
questions collaborate, we calculate the cosine simi-
larity between relation path text and question text
representations for WebQSP. Since there may be
multiple candidate relation paths, the relation path
with maximum similarity is selected. We then
equally divide data samples in the test set into ﬁve
groups, based on the cosine similarity scores. The
performance of two compared models ( w/ path
and w/o path) for each group is shown in Figure 3,
from which we observe two interesting trends.

[[page 8]]
Models WebQSP WebQSP-50
All 1-hop 2-hop All 1-hop 2-hop
w/ only textual part
w/ RotatE 68.4 80.2 48.2 50.4 60.4 33.2
w/ RotatE&Scale 76.1 84.6 61.6 56.1 64.7 41.4
w/ only structural part
w/ RotatE 67.8 79.7 47.3 50.2 60.4 32.7
w/ RotatE&Scale 75.3 84.7 58.9 53.4 61.8 37.9
w/ both
w/ RotatE 69.3 80.5 50.4 51.0 60.6 34.2
w/ RotatE&Scale 76.8 84.9 62.6 57.0 65.1 43.1
Table 3: Ablation results. “ w/ only textual part ” denotes the models that only use the textual features. “ w/ only
structural part” denotes the models that only use the structural features. “ w/ both” denotes the models that use
both the structural features and the textual features.
Figure 3: Average Hits@1 scores of TERP w/o path
and TERP w/ path on sub-testsets of WebQSP with dif-
ferent similarities between question and relation paths.
The red line denotes the performance gap between the
two compared models.
First, model performance degrades as cosine
similarity decreases. For example, the hits@1 for
“Very High” and “Very Low” differ enormously
(e.g., 98.4 v.s. 39.0 with our full TERP). Intuitively,
a question is relatively easy to answer if it is similar
to a potential relation path. Otherwise, it is more
challenging to ﬁnd the answer. In other words,
the question may not provide enough clues, mak-
ing question understanding more difﬁcult. Second,
the relation path information provides more sig-
niﬁcant improvement for more difﬁcult questions.
Incorporating relation path information may even
hinder model performance for the groups of “Very
High” and “High” (e.g., -0.2 and -0.1 hits@1). This
is because many relation paths will bring noises
but no extra valuable clues. On the contrary, the
hits@1 improvements on “Medium”, “Low”, and
“Very Low” are +1.0, +2.2 and +7.3, respectively.
These results clearly demonstrate that relation paths
provide complementary information for hard ques-
tions, and our method effectively extracts and syn-
thesizes essential features of relation paths. That is
where the superiority of our method mainly comes.
6 Related Work
There are two categories of KGQA methods com-
monly known as semantic parsing-based methods
and information retrieval-based methods (Lan et al.,
2021). We mainly focus on the second one. Miller
et al. (2016) proposes to use Memory Networks to
learn dense embeddings of the facts present in the
KG to perform QA. Sun et al. (2018, 2019a) cre-
ate a question-speciﬁc subgraph with entities and
sentences from the external text corpora and then
use a variant of graph CNN to rank the candidate
entities. Recently, He et al. (2021) and Shi et al.
(2021) utilize path searching methods to perform
KGQA. However, they ignore the information in
complete relation path. Yan et al. (2021) leverages
relation paths to identify answers, but they only
explore the textual form of relation. In another line
of work, Li et al. (2018) uses TransE (Bordes et al.,
2013) to answer the question, but it cannot work
in the scenario of KGQA. EmbedKGQA (Saxena
et al., 2020) leverages KG embeddings and projects
the question into a link prediction framework.
7 Conclusion
We have presented our method for KGQA, which
offers a novel perspective of exploiting hybrid fea-
tures of the off-the-shelf relation paths. We dis-
till essential relation path features by fusing ex-
plicit textual information and implicit structural
features via a question-aware manner. By project-

[[page 9]]
ing a natural language question as well as the ob-
tained hybrid features of candidate relation paths
into a novel rotate-and-scale entity link prediction
framework, we effectively coordinate question and
relation paths to select the answer entity. We re-
veal that questions and relation paths can be seen
as two relevant yet complementary facets of their
corresponding relations between a topic entity and
a target entity.
Acknowledgements
We thank anonymous reviewers for their valuable
comments. This research was supported by the
National Key Research and Development Program
of China (No. 2018YFB1403002).
References
Mattia Atzeni, Jasmina Bogojeska, and Andreas
Loukas. 2021. Sqaler: Scaling question answering
by decoupling multi-hop and logical reasoning. In
NeurIPS.
Kurt D. Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen K. Paritosh,
Tim Sturge, and Jamie Taylor. 2008. Freebase: a
collaboratively created graph database for structur-
ing human knowledge. In SIGMOD Conference.
Antoine Bordes, Nicolas Usunier, Alberto García-
Durán, Jason Weston, and Oksana Yakhnenko.
2013. Translating embeddings for modeling multi-
relational data. In NIPS.
Samuel Broscheit, Daniel Rufﬁnelli, Adrian Kochsiek,
Patrick Betz, and Rainer Gemulla. 2020. LibKGE
- A knowledge graph embedding library for repro-
ducible research. In Proceedings of the 2020 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing: System Demonstrations , pages 165–
174.
Zi-Yuan Chen, Chih-Hung Chang, Yi-Pei Chen, Ji-
jnasa Nayak, and Lun-Wei Ku. 2019. UHop:
An Unrestricted-Hop Relation Extraction Frame-
work for Knowledge-Based Question Answering.
arXiv:1904.01246 [cs]. ArXiv: 1904.01246.
Jiale Han, Bo Cheng, and Xu Wang. 2020. Open do-
main question answering based on text enhanced
knowledge graph with hyperedge infusion. InFIND-
INGS.
Gaole He, Yunshi Lan, Jing Jiang, Wayne Xin Zhao,
and Ji-Rong Wen. 2021. Improving Multi-hop
Knowledge Base Question Answering by Learning
Intermediate Supervision Signals. Proceedings of
the 14th ACM International Conference on Web
Search and Data Mining , pages 553–561. ArXiv:
2101.03737.
Sen Hu, Lei Zou, and Xinbo Zhang. 2018. A state-
transition framework to answer complex questions
over knowledge base. In EMNLP.
Thomas Kipf and Max Welling. 2017. Semi-
supervised classiﬁcation with graph convolutional
networks. ArXiv, abs/1609.02907.
Yunshi Lan, Gaole He, Jinhao Jiang, Jing Jiang,
Wayne Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2021. A sur-
vey on complex knowledge base question answering:
Methods, challenges and solutions. In Proceedings
of the Thirtieth International Joint Conference on
Artiﬁcial Intelligence, IJCAI 2021, Virtual Event /
Montreal, Canada, 19-27 August 2021, pages 4483–
4491. ijcai.org.
Dingcheng Li, Jingyuan Zhang, and Ping Li. 2018.
Representation learning for question classiﬁcation
via topic sparse autoencoder and entity embedding.
2018 IEEE International Conference on Big Data
(Big Data), pages 126–133.
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Man-
dar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis,
Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019.
Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining ap-
proach. ArXiv, abs/1907.11692.
Alexander H. Miller, Adam Fisch, Jesse Dodge, Amir-
Hossein Karimi, Antoine Bordes, and Jason Weston.
2016. Key-value memory networks for directly read-
ing documents. In EMNLP.
Apoorv Saxena, Aditay Tripathi, and Partha Talukdar.
2020. Improving Multi-hop Question Answering
over Knowledge Graphs using Knowledge Base Em-
beddings. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
pages 4498–4507, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Jiaxin Shi, Shulin Cao, Lei Hou, Juan-Zi Li, and Han-
wang Zhang. 2021. Transfernet: An effective and
transparent framework for multi-hop question an-
swering over relation graph. In EMNLP.
Haitian Sun, Andrew O. Arnold, Tania Bedrax-Weiss,
Fernando Pereira, and William W. Cohen. 2020.
Faithful embeddings for knowledge base queries.
arXiv: Learning.
Haitian Sun, Tania Bedrax-Weiss, and William W.
Cohen. 2019a. PullNet: Open Domain Question
Answering with Iterative Retrieval on Knowledge
Bases and Text. arXiv:1904.09537 [cs] . ArXiv:
1904.09537.
Haitian Sun, Bhuwan Dhingra, Manzil Zaheer, Kathryn
Mazaitis, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and William W. Co-
hen. 2018. Open Domain Question Answering Us-
ing Early Fusion of Knowledge Bases and Text.
arXiv:1809.00782 [cs]. ArXiv: 1809.00782.

[[page 10]]
Zhiqing Sun, Zhi-Hong Deng, Jian-Yun Nie, and Jian
Tang. 2019b. RotatE: Knowledge Graph Embed-
ding by Relational Rotation in Complex Space.
arXiv:1902.10197 [cs, stat]. ArXiv: 1902.10197.
Alon Talmor and Jonathan Berant. 2018. The web as
a knowledge-base for answering complex questions.
In NAACL.
Thomas Pellissier Tanon, Denny Vrande, Sebastian
Schaffert, Thomas Steiner, and Lydia Pintscher.
2016. From freebase to wikidata: The great migra-
tion. Proceedings of the 25th International Confer-
ence on World Wide Web.
Wen tau Yih, Matthew Richardson, Christopher Meek,
Ming-Wei Chang, and Jina Suh. 2016. The value of
semantic parse labeling for knowledge base question
answering. In ACL.
Théo Trouillon, Johannes Welbl, Sebastian Riedel,
Éric Gaussier, and Guillaume Bouchard. 2016.
Complex Embeddings for Simple Link Prediction.
arXiv:1606.06357 [cs, stat]. ArXiv: 1606.06357.
Wenhan Xiong, Mo Yu, Shiyu Chang, Xiaoxiao Guo,
and William Yang Wang. 2019. Improving ques-
tion answering over incomplete kbs with knowledge-
aware reader. In ACL.
Yuanmeng Yan, Rumei Li, Sirui Wang, Hongzhi Zhang,
Zan Daoguang, Fuzheng Zhang, Wei Wu, and
Weiran Xu. 2021. Large-scale relation learning for
question answering over knowledge bases with pre-
trained language models. In EMNLP.
Yuyu Zhang, Hanjun Dai, Zornitsa Kozareva, Alex
Smola, and Le Song. 2018. Variational reasoning
for question answering with knowledge graph. In
AAAI.