[[page 1]]
Graphhopper: Multi-Hop Scene Graph
Reasoning for Visual Question Answering
Rajat Koner∗1, Hang Li∗1,2, Marcel Hildebrandt∗1,2, Deepan Das 3, Volker
Tresp1,2, and Stephan G¨ unnemann3
1 Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany
2 Siemens AG, Germany
3 Technical University of Munich, Germany
∗ equal contribution
Abstract. Visual Question Answering (VQA) is concerned with answer-
ing free-form questions about an image. Since it requires a deep semantic
and linguistic understanding of the question and the ability to associate
it with various objects that are present in the image, it is an ambitious
task and requires multi-modal reasoning from both computer vision and
natural language processing. We propose Graphhopper, a novel method
that approaches the task by integrating knowledge graph reasoning, com-
puter vision, and natural language processing techniques. Concretely,
our method is based on performing context-driven, sequential reasoning
based on the scene entities and their semantic and spatial relationships.
As a ﬁrst step, we derive a scene graph that describes the objects in
the image, as well as their attributes and their mutual relationships.
Subsequently, a reinforcement learning agent is trained to autonomously
navigate in a multi-hop manner over the extracted scene graph to gener-
ate reasoning paths, which are the basis for deriving answers. We conduct
an experimental study on the challenging dataset GQA, based on both
manually curated and automatically generated scene graphs. Our results
show that we keep up with human performance on manually curated
scene graphs. Moreover, we ﬁnd that Graphhopper outperforms another
state-of-the-art scene graph reasoning model on both manually curated
and automatically generated scene graphs by a signiﬁcant margin.
Keywords: Visual Question Answering (VQA)· Knowledge Graph Rea-
soning · Scene Graph Reasoning · Multi-Modal Reasoning · Reinforce-
ment Learning
1 Introduction
Visual Question Answering (VQA) is a challenging task that involves under-
standing and reasoning over two data modalities, i.e., images and natural lan-
guage. Given an image and a free-form question which formulates a query about
the presented scene — the issue is for the algorithm to ﬁnd the correct answer.
VQA has been studied from the perspective of scene and knowledge graphs
[33,6], as well as vision-language reasoning [10,1]. To study VQA, various real-
world data sets, such as the VQA data set [4,24], have been generated. It has
arXiv:2107.06325v1  [cs.CV]  13 Jul 2021

[[page 2]]
2 R. Koner et al.
Fig. 1. Example of an image and the corresponding scene graph. Since the scene
graph is a directed graph with typed edges, it resembles a knowledge graph and
permits the application of knowledge-base completion techniques.
been argued that, in the VQA data set, many of the apparently challenging
reasoning tasks can be solved by an algorithm through exploiting trivial prior
knowledge, and thus by shortcuts to proper reasoning (e.g., clouds are white
or doors are made of wood). To address these shortcomings, the GQA dataset
[17] has been developed. Compared to other real-world datasets, GQA is more
suitable for evaluating reasoning abilities since the images and questions are
carefully ﬁltered to make the data less prone to biases.
Plenty of VQA approaches are agnostic towards the explicit relational struc-
ture of the objects in the presented scene and rely on monolithic neural network
architectures that process regional features of the image separately [2,39]. While
these methods led to promising results on previous datasets, they lack explicit
compositional reasoning abilities, which results in weaker performance on more
challenging datasets such as GQA. Other works [34,31,15] perform reasoning
on explicitly detected objects and interactive semantic and spatial relationships
among them. These approaches are closely related to the scene graph representa-
tions [19] of an image, where detected objects are labeled as nodes and relation-
ships between the objects are labeled as edges. In this work, we aim to combine
VQA techniques with recent research advances in the area of statistical rela-
tion learning on knowledge graphs (KGs). KGs provide human-understandable,
structured representations of knowledge about the real world via collections of
factual statements. Inspired by multi-hop reasoning methods on KGs such as
[8,38,12], we propose Graphhopper, a novel method that models the VQA task as
a path-ﬁnding problem on scene graphs. The underlying idea can be summarized

[[page 3]]
Graphhopper 3
with the phrase: Learn to walk to the correct answer. More speciﬁcally, given
an image, we consider a scene graph and train a reinforcement learning agent
to conduct a policy-guided random walk on the scene graph until a conclusive
inference path is obtained. In contrast to purely embedding-based approaches,
our method provides explicit reasoning chains that lead to the derived answers.
To sum up, our major contributions are as follows.
– Graphhopper is the ﬁrst VQA method that employs reinforcement learning
for multi-hop reasoning on scene graphs.
– We conduct a thorough experimental study on the challenging VQA dataset
named QGA to show the compositional and interpretable nature of our
model.
– To analyze the reasoning capabilities of our method, we consider manually
curated (ground truth) scene graphs. This setting isolates the noise asso-
ciated with the visual perception task and focuses solely on the language
understanding and reasoning task. Thereby, we can show that our method
achieves human-like performance.
– Based on both the manually curated scene graphs and our own automatically
generated scene graphs, we show that Graphhopper outperforms the Neural
State Machine (NMS), a state-of-the-art scene graph reasoning model that
operates in a setting, similar to Graphhopper.
Moreover, we are the ﬁrst group to conduct experiments and publish the code
on generated scene graphs for the GQA dataset 4.The remainder of this work is
organized as follows. We review related literature in the next section. Section 3 in-
troduces the notation and describes the methodology of Graphhopper. Section 4
and Section 5 detail an experimental study on the benchmark dataset GQA. Fur-
thermore, through a rigorous study using both manually-curated ground-truth
and generated scene graphs, we examine the reasoning capabilities of Graphhop-
per. We conclude in Section 6.
2 Related Work
Visual Question Answering: Various models have been proposed that perform
VQA on both real-world [4,17] and artiﬁcial datasets [18]. Currently, leading
VQA approaches can be categorized into two diﬀerent branches: First, mono-
lithic neural networks, which perform implicit reasoning on latent representations
obtained from fusing the two data modalities. Second, multi-hop methods that
form explicit symbolic reasoning chains on a structured representation of the
data. Monolithic network architectures obtain visual features from the image
either in the form of individual detected objects or by processing the whole im-
age directly via convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The derived embeddings
are usually scored against a ﬁxed answer set along with the embedding of the
question obtained from a sequence model. Moreover, co-attention mechanisms
4 Code is available at : https://github.com/rajatkoner08/Graphhopper

[[page 4]]
4 R. Koner et al.
are frequently employed to couple the vision and the language models allowing
for interactions between objects from both modalities [20,2,5,40,41]. Monolithic
networks are among the dominant methods on previous real-world VQA datasets
such as [4]. However, they suﬀer from the black-box problem and possess lim-
ited reasoning capabilities with respect to complex questions that require long
reasoning chains (see [7] for a detailed discussion).
Explicit reasoning methods combine the sub-symbolic representation learn-
ing paradigm with symbolic reasoning approaches over structured representa-
tions of the image. Most of the popular explicit reasoning approaches follow
the idea of neural module networks (NMNs) [3] which perform a sequence of
reasoning steps realized by forward passes through specialized neural networks
that each correspond to predeﬁned reasoning subtasks. Thereby, NMNs con-
struct functional programs by dynamically assembling the modules resulting in
a question-speciﬁc neural network architecture. In contrast to the monolithic
neural network architectures described above, these methods contain a natural
transparency mechanism via functional programs. However, while NMN-related
methods (e.g., [14,26]) exhibit good performance on synthetic datasets such as
CLEVR [18], they require functional module layouts as additional supervision
signals to obtain good results. Closely related to our method is the Neural State
Machine (NSM) proposed by [16]. NSM’s underlying idea consists of ﬁrst con-
structing a scene graph from an image and treating it as a state machine. Con-
cretely, the nodes correspond to states and edges to transitions. Then, condi-
tioned on the question, a sequence of instructions is derived that indicates how
to traverse the scene graph and arrive at the answer. In contrast to NSM, we
treat path-ﬁnding as a decision problem in a reinforcement learning setting.
Concretely, we outline in the next section how extracting predictive paths from
scene graphs can be naturally formulated in terms of a goal-oriented random
walk induced by a stochastic policy that allows the approach to balance between
exploration and exploitation. Moreover, our framework integrates state-of-the-
art techniques from graph representation learning and NLP. This paper only
considers basic policy gradient methods, but more sophisticated reinforcement
learning techniques will be employed in future works.
Statistical Relational Learning: Machine learning methods for KG reasoning
aim at exploiting statistical regularities in observed connectivity patterns. These
methods are studied under the umbrella of statistical relational learning (SRL)
[27]. In recent years, KG embeddings have become the dominant approach in
SRL. The underlying idea is that graph features that explain the connectivity
pattern of KGs can be encoded in low-dimensional vector spaces. In the embed-
ding spaces, the interactions among the embeddings for entities and relations
can be eﬃciently modeled to produce scores that predict the validity of a triple.
Despite achieving good results in KG reasoning tasks, most embedding-based
methods have problems capturing the compositionality expressed by long rea-
soning chains. This often limits their applicability in complex reasoning tasks.
Recently, multi-hop reasoning methods such as MINERVA [8] and DeepPath [38]
were proposed. Both methods are based on the idea that a reinforcement learn-

[[page 5]]
Graphhopper 5
ing agent is trained to perform a policy-guided random walk until the answer
entity to a query is reached. Thereby, the path ﬁnding problem of the agent can
be modeled in terms of a sequential decision making task framed as a Markov
decision process (MDP). The method that we propose in this work follows a
similar philosophy, in the sense that we train an RL agent to navigate on a
scene graph to the correct answer node. However, a conceptual diﬀerence is that
the agents in MINERVA and DeepPath perform walks on large-scale knowledge
graphs exploiting repeating statistical patterns. Thereby, the policies implicitly
incorporate approximate rules. In addition, instead of free-form processing ques-
tions, the query in the KG reasoning setting is structured as a pair of symbolic
entities. That is why we propose a wide range of modiﬁcations to adjust our
method to the challenging VQA setting.
3 Method
The task of VQA is framed as a scene graph traversal problem. Starting from
a hub node that is connected to all other nodes, an agent sequentially samples
transitions to neighboring nodes on the scene graph until the node correspond-
ing to the answer is reached. In this way, by adding transitions to the current
path, the reasoning chain is successively extended. Before describing the deci-
sion problem of the agent, we introduce the notation that we use throughout
this work.
Notation: A scene graph is a directed multigraph where each node corresponds
to a scene entity which is either an object associated with a bounding box or an
attribute of an object. Each scene entity comes with a type that corresponds to
the predicted object or attribute label. Typed edges specify how scene entities
are related to each other. More formally, let E denote the set of scene entities
and consider the set of binary relations R. Then a scene graph SG ⊂ E×
R×E is a collection of ordered triples ( s,p,o ) – subject, predicate, and object.
For example, as shown in Figure 1, the triple (motorcycle-1, has part, tire-1)
indicates that both a motorcycle (subject) and a tire (object) are detected in
the image. The predicate has part indicates the relation between the entities.
Moreover, we denote withp−1 the inverse relation corresponding to the predicate
p. For the remainder of this work, we impose completeness with respect to inverse
relations in the sense that for every ( s,p,o )∈SG it is implied that (o,p−1,s )∈
SG.
Environment The state space of the agent S is given byE×Q whereE are the
nodes of a scene graph SG andQ denotes the set of all questions. The state at
time t is the entity et at which the agent is currently located and the question
Q. Thus, a state St∈S for time t∈ N is represented by St = (et,Q ). The set
of available actions from a state St is denoted by ASt. It contains all outgoing
edges from the node et together with their corresponding object nodes. More
formally,ASt ={(r,e )∈R×E :St = (et,Q )∧ (et,r,e )∈SG} . Moreover, we

[[page 6]]
6 R. Koner et al.
Fig. 2. The architecture of our scene graph reasoning module.
denote withAt∈A St the action that the agent performed at time t. We include
self-loops for each node in SG that produce a NO OP-label. These self-loops
allow the agent to remain at the current location if it reaches the answer node.
Furthermore, the introduction of inverse relations allows agent to transit freely
in any direction between two nodes.
The environments evolve deterministically by updating the state accord-
ing to previous action. Formally, the transition function at time t is given by
δt(St,At) := (et+1,Q ) with St = (et,Q ) and At = (r,et+1).
Auxiliary Nodes : In addition to standard entity relation nodes present in
a scene graph, we introduce a few auxiliary nodes (e.g. hub node). The underlying
rationale for the inclusion of auxiliary nodes is that they facilitate the walk for
the agent or help to frame the QA-task as a goal-oriented walk on the scene
graph. These additional nodes are included during run-time graph traversal,
but they are ignored during the compile time such as when computing node
embedding. For example, we add a hub node ( hub) to every scene graph which
is connected to all other nodes. The agent then starts the scene graph traversal
from a hub with global connectivity. Furthermore for a binary question, we add
YES and NO nodes to the scene entities that correspond to the ﬁnal location of
the agent. The agent can then transition to either the YES or the NO node.
Question and Scene Graph Processing We initialize words in Q with GloVe
embeddings [29] with dimension d = 300. Similarly we initialize entities and re-
lations inSG with the embeddings of their type labels. In the scene graph, the
node embeddings are passed through a multi-layered graph attention network
(GAT) [36]. Extending the idea from graph convolutional networks [22] with
a self-attention mechanism, GATs mimic the convolution operator on regular

[[page 7]]
Graphhopper 7
grids where an entity embedding is formed by aggregating node features from
its neighbors. Relations and inverse relations between nodes allows context to
ﬂow in both ways through GAT. Thus, the resulting embeddings are context-
aware, which makes nodes with the same type, but diﬀerent graph neighbor-
hoods, distinguishable. To produce an embedding for the question Q, we ﬁrst
apply a Transformer [35], followed by a mean pooling operation.
Finally, since we added auxiliary YES and NO nodes to the scene graph
for binary questions, we train a feedforward neural network to classify query-
type (i.e., questions that query for an object in the depicted scene) and binary
questions. This network consists of two fully connected layers with ReLU ac-
tivation on the intermediate output. We ﬁnd that it is easy to distingquish
between query and binary questions (e.g., query questions usually begin with
What, Which, How , etc., whereas binary questions usually begin with Do, Is ,
etc.). Since our classiﬁer achieves 99.99% accuracy we will ignore the error in
question classiﬁcation in the following discussions.
Policy We denote the agent’s history until time t with the tuple Ht =
(Ht−1,At−1) for t≥ 1 and H0 = hub along with A0 =∅ for t = 0. The his-
tory is encoded via a multilayered LSTM [13]
ht = LSTM (at−1) , (1)
where at−1 = [ rt−1, et]∈ R2d corresponds to the embedding of the previous
action with rt−1 and et denoting the embeddings of the edge and the target
node into Rd, respectively. The history-dependent action distribution is given
by
dt = softmax (At (W2ReLU (W1 [ht, Q]))) , (2)
where the rows of At∈ R|ASt|×d contain latent representations of all admissible
actions. Moreover, Q∈ Rd encodes the questionQ. The actionAt = (r,e )∈A St
is drawn according to categorical (dt). Equations (1) and (2) induce a stochastic
policy πθ, where θ denotes the set of trainable parameters.
Rewards and Optimization After sampling T transitions, a terminal reward is
assigned according to
R =
{
1 if eT is the answer to Q,
0 otherwise. (3)
We employ REINFORCE [37] to maximize the expected rewards. Thus, the
agent’s maximization problem is given by
arg max
θ
EQ∼T EA1,A2,...,AN∼πθ
[
R
⏐⏐⏐⏐ec
]
, (4)
whereT denote the set of training questions. During training the ﬁrst expecta-
tion in Equation (4) is substituted with the empirical average over the training

[[page 8]]
8 R. Koner et al.
set. The second expectation is approximated by the empirical average over mul-
tiple rollouts. We also employ a moving average baseline to reduce the variance.
Further, we use entropy regularization with parameter λ∈ R≥0 to enforce ex-
ploration. During inference, we do not sample paths but perform a beam search
with width 20 based on the transition probabilities given by Equation (2).
Additional details on the model, the training and the inference procedure
along with sketches of the algorithms, and a complexity analysis can be found
in the supplementary material.
4 Dataset and Experimental Setup
In this section we introduce the dataset and detail the experimental protocol.
4.1 Dataset
The GQA dataset [17] has been introduced with the goal of addressing key short-
comings of previous VQA datasets, such as CLEVR [18] or the VQA dataset [4].
GQA is more suitable for evaluating the reasoning and compositional abilities of
a model in a realistic setting. It contains 113K images, and around 1.2M ques-
tions split into roughly 80%/10%/10% for the training, validation, and testing.
The overall vocabulary size consists of 3097 words, including 1702 object classes,
310 relationships, and 610 object attributes.
Due to the large number of objects and relationships present in GQA, we used
a pruned version of the dataset (see Section 5) for our generated scene graph.
In this work, we have conducted two primary experiments. First, we report the
results on manually curated scene graphs provided in the GQA dataset. In this
setting, the true reasoning and language understanding capabilities of our model
can be analyzed. Afterward, we evaluate the performance of our model with the
generated scene graphs on pruned GQA dataset. It shows the performance of our
model on noisy generated data. We have used state of the art Relation Trans-
former Network (RTN) [23] for the scene graph generation and DetectoRS [30]
for object detection. We have conducted all the experiments on “test-dev” split
of the GQA.
Question Types: The questions are designed to evaluate the reasoning abilities
such as visual veriﬁcation, relational reasoning, spatial reasoning, comparison,
and logical reasoning. These questions can be categorized either according to
structural or semantic criteria. An overview of the diﬀerent question types is
given in supplementary (see Table 4).
4.2 Experimental Setup
Scene Graph Reasoning: Regarding the model parameters, we apply 300 di-
mensional GloVe embeddings to both the questions and the graphs (i.e., edges
and nodes). Moreover, we employ a two-layer GAT [36] model. The dropout [32]
probability of each layer is set to 0.1. The ﬁrst layer has eight attention heads.

[[page 9]]
Graphhopper 9
Each head has eight latent features which are concatenated to form the output
features of that layer. The output layer has eight attention heads with mean
aggregation, so that the output also has 300-dimensional features. We apply
dropout with p = 0.1 to the attention coeﬃcients at each layer. This essentially
means that each node is exposed to a stochastically sampled neighborhood dur-
ing training. Moreover, we employ a two-layer Transformer [35] decoder model.
The model dimension is set to 300, and the key and query dimensions are both
set to 64 with dropout p = 0.1 . The LSTM of the policy networks consists of
a uni-directional layer with hidden size 300. Finally, the agent performs a ﬁxed
number of transitions. In question answering, most questions concern one subject
to be explored within one reasoning path originated from the start node. Hence,
we set the maximum number of steps to 4, without resetting. By contrast, the
binary questions have 8 steps and a reset frequency of 4. In other words, the
agent is prompted to the hub node after the fourth step.
Training the Graphhopper: In terms of the training procedure, the GAT, the
Transformer, and the policy networks are initialized with Glorot [11] initializa-
tion. We train our model with data from the val balanced questions tier. We use
a batch size of 64 and sample a batch of questions along with their associated
graphs. We collect 20 stochastic rollouts for each question performed in a vector-
ized form to utilize parallel computation. For each batch, we collect the rewards
when a complete forward pass is done. Then the gradients are approximated
from the rewards and applied to update the weights. We employ the Adam op-
timizer [21] with a learning rate of 10−4 for all trainable weights. The coeﬃcient
for the action entropy, which balances exploration and exploitation, starts from
0.2 and decreases exponentially at each step with a factor 0.99.
Next to other standard Python libraries, we mainly employed PyTorch [28].
All experiments were conducted on a machine with one NVIDIA RTX 2080 Ti
GPU and 64 GB RAM. Training the scene graph reasoner of Graphhopper for
40 epochs on GQA takes around 10 hours, testing about 1 hour.
4.3 Performance Metrics
Along with the accuracy (i.e., Hits@1) on open questions (“Open”), binary ques-
tions (yes/no) (“Binary”), and the overall accuracy (“Accuracy”), we also report
the additional metric “Consistency” (answers should not contradict themselves),
“Validity” (answers are in the range of a question; e.g.,red is a valid answer when
asked for the color of an object), “Plausibility” (answers should be reasonable;
e.g., red is a reasonable color of an apple reasonable, blue is not), as proposed
in [17].
5 Results and Discussion
As outlined before, VQA is a challenging task, and there is still a signiﬁcant per-
formance gap between state-of-the-art VQA methods and human performance on

[[page 10]]
10 R. Koner et al.
challenging, real-world datasets such as GQA (see [17]). Similar to other existing
methods, our architecture involves multiple components, and it important to be
able to analyse the performance of the diﬀerent modules and processing steps in
isolation. Therefore we ﬁrst present the results of our experiments on manually
curated, ground-truth scene graphs provided in the GQA dataset and compare
the performance of Graphhopper against NSM and humans. This setting allows
us to isolate the noise from the visual perception component and quantify our
methods’ reasoning capabilities. Subsequently, we present the results with our
own generated scene graphs.
In addition, we also observed that the inclusion of auxiliary nodes helps the
agent to achieve eﬃcient performance. Hub node performs better compare to
starting from any random nodes, as its facilitate easier forward and backtracking
from a node. For binary question instead of YES or NO node, we experimented
where the path of the agent was processed by another classiﬁer (e.g., a logis-
tic regression) and the classiﬁcation logits were assigned as rewards. However,
this led to inferior results; most likely due to the absence of a weight-sharing
mechanism and due to the noisy reward signal produced by the classiﬁer. These
observations supports our assumption on the role of auxiliary nodes we have
used in scene graph.
Reproducing NSM: [15] proposed the state of the art method named NSM for
VQA. NSM is the conceptually most similar method, as it also exploits the
scene graph reasoning for VQA. We consider NSM to be our baseline method
for comparison. However, their approach to reasoning is diﬀerent from ours. To
compare the reasoning ability of our method with the same generated scene
graph, we tried to reproduce NSM, as the code for NSM is not open-sourced.
We have used the the available parameters from [15] and the implementation
from [9].
T able 1. A comparison of Graphhopper with human performance and NSM
based on manually curated scene graphs.
Method Binary Open Consistency Validity Plausibility Accuracy
Human [17] 91.2 87.4 98.4 98.9 97.2 89.3
NSM [15] 51.03 18.79 81.36 83.69 79.12 34.5
Graphhopper 92.18 92.40 91.92 93.68 93.13 92.30
5.1 Results on Manually Curated Scene Graphs
In this section, we report on an experimental study with Graphhopper on the
manually curated scene graphs provided along with the GQA dataset. Table 1
shows the performance of Graphhopper and compares it with the human perfor-
mance reported in [17] and with the performance of NSM on the same underlying

[[page 11]]
Graphhopper 11
manually curated scene graphs. We ﬁnd that Graphhopper strictly outperforms
NSM with respect to all performance measures. In particular, on the open ques-
tions, the performance gap is signiﬁcant. Moreover, Graphhopper also slightly
outperforms humans with respect to the accuracy on both types of questions.
On the other hand, concerning the supplementary performance measures con-
sistency, validity, and plausibility, Graphhopper is outperformed by humans but
nevertheless consistently reaches high values. Overall, these results can be seen
as a testament of the reasoning capabilities and establish an upper bound to the
performance of Graphhopper.
5.2 Results on automatically generated graph
The process of generating a graph representation for visual data is a costly and
complex procedure. Although the scene graph generation is not the main focus
of this work, it constituted one of the major challenges to create good scene
graph for GQA due to the following facts:
– There is no open source code for GQA scene graph generation or object
detection.
– A large number of instances and an uneven class distribution in GQA leads to
a signiﬁcant drop in the accuracy compared to existing scene graph datasets
(see [24]).
– There is a lack of attribute prediction models in modern object detection
frameworks.
In this work, we adress all of these challenges as our model’s performance is
directly dependent on the quality of the scene graph. We will also open-source
our code base for transparency and accelerate the development scene graph-
based reasoning for VQA.
Generation of Scene Graph: To address these problems, ﬁrst, we choose two
state-of-the-art network, RTN [23] for scene graph generation, and DetectoRS
[30] for object detection. The transformer [35] based architecture of RTN and
its contextual scene graph embedding is most closely related to our architecture
and for our future expansion. To make Graphhopper generic to any scene graph
generator, we haven’t use contextualized embedding from RTN, instead we rely
on GAT for contextualization.
Pruning of GQA: GQA has more than 6 times the number of relationships
compared to Visual Genome [24], which is the most used scene graph generation
dataset, and contains more than 18 times the number of objects compared to the
most common object detection dataset COCO [25]. Also, the class distribution
is highly skewed which causes a signiﬁcant drop in the accuracy for both the
object detection and the scene graph generation task. To eﬃciently prune the
number of instances, we take the ﬁrst 800 classes, 170 relationships, and 200
attributes based on their frequency of occurrence in the training questions and
answers. This pruning allows us to reduce more than 60% of the words while
covering more than 96% of the combined answers in the training set.

[[page 12]]
12 R. Koner et al.
(a) Question: Is the color
of the number the same as
that of the wristband?
Answer: No.
(b) Question: What is the
name of the appliance that
is not small?
Answer: Refrigerator.
(c) Do both the pepper
and the vegetable to the
right of the ice cube have
green color?
Answer: Yes.
Fig. 3. Three examples question and the corresponding images and paths.
Attribute prediction: One of the shortcomings of existing scene graph generation
and object detection networks is that they do not predict the attributes (e.g., the
color or size of an object) of a detected object. Therefore, we have incorporated
the attribute prediction for answering the question on GQA. Contextualized
object embedding from RTN [23] is used for attribute prediction as
Pattribute =σ(W (Objcontext,Pobj)), (5)
where W ,Objcontext, Pobj , Pattribute are the weight matrices of a linear layer,
the contextual embedding of an object, the probability distribution over all ob-
jects and the probability distribution over the attributes. σ denotes the sigmoid
function.
We have trained both the object detector and the scene graph generator on a
pruned version of GQA with their respective default parameters after the pre-
possessing. This helps to increase the coverage of all the instances (e.g., objects,
attributes, relationships ) on training questions from 52% to 77% implying that
our generated scene graph now covers 77% of all instances that represent answers
to the training questions.
T able 2. A comparison of our method with NSM, based on generated scene
graphs. Graphhopper (pr) indicates that we employed predicted relations from
RTN [23].
Method Binary Open Consistency Validity Plausibility Accuracy
NSM [15] 51.88 19.83 82.01 86.28 81.75 35.34
Graphhopper 69.48 44.69 83.64 89.42 85.13 56.69
Graphhopper (pr) 85.84 77.27 92.98 92.26 89.50 81.41

[[page 13]]
Graphhopper 13
(a) Experiments on Manually Curated Scene Graph
(b) Experiments on Ground Truth objects and predicted relation from RTN [23]
as Relation predictor.
(c) Experiments on Generated Scene Graph using DetectoRS [30] object detector
and RTN [23] as Scene Graph generator.
Fig. 4. Comparison of the performance of our model on various Scene Graph
generation settings, (left) accuracy across various semantic instances (“At-
tribute”,“Global”,“Relation” etc) required to answer a question (middle) ac-
curacy on multiple types of question category (“Choose”,“Logical”,“Verify” etc)
and (right) accuracy on minimum number of steps needed to reach the answer
node.

[[page 14]]
14 R. Koner et al.
Table 2, shows the performance of Graphhopper in two settings: First, with
a generated graph where we predict the classes, the attributes, and relationships
using our own pipeline. Second, where we only use the predicted relationships
from RTN [23] (with ground truth objects and attributes). We ﬁnd that Graph-
hopper consistently outperforms NSM [15] based on the generated graph. More-
over, in the “pr” or predicted relations setting, it achieves an even higher score as
the graphs do not contain any misprediction from the object detector. These en-
couraging results show superior reasoning abilities both on the generated graph
and generated relationships between objects.
5.3 Discussion on the Reasoning Ability
To further analyze the reasoning abilities of Graphhopper, Figure 4 disentangles
the results according to diﬀerent types of questions: 5 semantic types (left) and
5 structural types (middle). Moreover, we report the performance of Graphhop-
per according to the length of the reasoning path (right) (see the supplemen-
tary material for additional information). Moreover, we show the performance
of Graphhopper separately for each of the three scene graph settings that we
considered in this work. Figure 4a shows performance on a manually curated
scene graph that depicts the actual performance in an ideal environment. Figure
4b illustrates the performance based on only the predicted relationships between
objects. This setting shows the performance of Graphhopper along with a scene
graph generator. Finally, Figure 4c depicts the performance based on the object
detector, the scene graph generator, and Graphhopper. First and foremost, we
ﬁnd that Graphhopper consistently achieves high accuracy on all types of ques-
tions in every setting. Moreover, we ﬁnd that the performance of Graphhopper
does not suﬀer if answering the questions requires many reasoning steps. We con-
jecture that this is because high-complexity questions are harder to answer, but
due to proper contextualization of the embeddings (e.g., via the GAT and the
Transformer), the agent can extract the speciﬁc information that identiﬁes the
correct target node. The good performance on these high-complexity questions
can be seen as evidence that Graphhopper can eﬃciently translate the question
into a transition on the scene graph hopping until the correct answer is reached.
Examples of Reasoning Path: Figure 3 shows three examples of scene graph
traversals of Graphhopper that lead to the correct answer. One can see in these
examples that the sequential reasoning process over explicit scene graph entities
makes the reasoning process more comprehensible. In the case of wrong predic-
tions, the extracted path may oﬀer insights into the mechanics of Graphhopper
and facilitate debugging.
6 Conclusion
We have proposed Graphhopper, a novel method for visual question answering
that integrates existing KG reasoning, computer vision, and natural language

[[page 15]]
Graphhopper 15
processing techniques. Concretely, an agent is trained to extract conclusive rea-
soning paths from scene graphs. To analyze the reasoning abilities of our method,
we conducted a rigorous experimental study on both manually curated and gen-
erated scene graphs. Based on the manually curated scene graphs we showed that
Graphhopper reaches human performance. Moreover, we ﬁnd that, on our own
automatically generated scene graph, Graphhopper outperform another state-of-
the-art scene graph reasoning model with respect to all considered performance
metrics. In future works, we plan to combine scene graphs with common sense
knowledge graphs to further enhance the reasoning abilities of Graphhopper.
References
1. Abbasnejad, E., Teney, D., Parvaneh, A., Shi, J., Hengel, A.v.d.: Counterfactual
vision and language learning. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 10044–10054 (2020)
2. Anderson, P., He, X., Buehler, C., Teney, D., Johnson, M., Gould, S., Zhang,
L.: Bottom-up and top-down attention for image captioning and visual question
answering. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition. pp. 6077–6086 (2018)
3. Andreas, J., Rohrbach, M., Darrell, T., Klein, D.: Neural module networks. In:
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
pp. 39–48 (2016)
4. Antol, S., Agrawal, A., Lu, J., Mitchell, M., Batra, D., Lawrence Zitnick, C., Parikh,
D.: Vqa: Visual question answering. In: Proceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision. pp. 2425–2433 (2015)
5. Cadene, R., Ben-Younes, H., Cord, M., Thome, N.: Murel: Multimodal relational
reasoning for visual question answering. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 1989–1998 (2019)
6. Chen, L., Zhang, H., Xiao, J., He, X., Pu, S., Chang, S.F.: Counterfactual critic
multi-agent training for scene graph generation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision. pp. 4613–4623 (2019)
7. Chen, W., Gan, Z., Li, L., Cheng, Y., Wang, W., Liu, J.: Meta module network
for compositional visual reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.03230 (2019)
8. Das, R., Dhuliawala, S., Zaheer, M., Vilnis, L., Durugkar, I., Krishnamurthy, A.,
Smola, A., McCallum, A.: Go for a walk and arrive at the answer: Reasoning over
paths in knowledge bases using reinforcement learning. In: ICLR (2018)
9. Eyzaguirre, C.: Nsm. https://github.com/charlespwd/project-title (2019)
10. Gan, Z., Chen, Y.C., Li, L., Zhu, C., Cheng, Y., Liu, J.: Large-scale adver-
sarial training for vision-and-language representation learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2006.06195 (2020)
11. Glorot, X., Bengio, Y.: Understanding the diﬃculty of training deep feedforward
neural networks. In: Proceedings of the thirteenth international conference on ar-
tiﬁcial intelligence and statistics. pp. 249–256 (2010)
12. Hildebrandt, M., Serna, J.A.Q., Ma, Y., Ringsquandl, M., Joblin, M., Tresp,
V.: Reasoning on knowledge graphs with debate dynamics. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2001.00461 (2020)
13. Hochreiter, S., Schmidhuber, J.: Long short-term memory. Neural computation
9(8), 1735–1780 (1997)

[[page 16]]
16 R. Koner et al.
14. Hu, R., Andreas, J., Rohrbach, M., Darrell, T., Saenko, K.: Learning to reason:
End-to-end module networks for visual question answering. In: Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision. pp. 804–813 (2017)
15. Hudson, D., Manning, C.D.: Learning by abstraction: The neural state machine.
In: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. pp. 5901–5914 (2019)
16. Hudson, D.A., Manning, C.D.: Compositional attention networks for machine rea-
soning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.03067 (2018)
17. Hudson, D.A., Manning, C.D.: Gqa: A new dataset for real-world visual reasoning
and compositional question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.09506 (2019)
18. Johnson, J., Hariharan, B., van der Maaten, L., Fei-Fei, L., Lawrence Zitnick, C.,
Girshick, R.: Clevr: A diagnostic dataset for compositional language and elemen-
tary visual reasoning. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition. pp. 2901–2910 (2017)
19. Johnson, J., Krishna, R., Stark, M., Li, L.J., Shamma, D., Bernstein, M., Fei-Fei,
L.: Image retrieval using scene graphs. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 3668–3678 (2015)
20. Kim, J.H., Jun, J., Zhang, B.T.: Bilinear attention networks. In: Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems. pp. 1564–1574 (2018)
21. Kingma, D.P., Ba, J.: Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1412.6980 (2014)
22. Kipf, T.N., Welling, M.: Semi-supervised classiﬁcation with graph convolutional
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.02907 (2016)
23. Koner, R., Sinhamahapatra, P., Tresp, V.: Relation transformer network. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2004.06193 (2020)
24. Krishna, R., Zhu, Y., Groth, O., Johnson, J., Hata, K., Kravitz, J., Chen, S.,
Kalantidis, Y., Li, L.J., Shamma, D.A., et al.: Visual genome: Connecting language
and vision using crowdsourced dense image annotations. International Journal of
Computer Vision 123(1), 32–73 (2017)
25. Lin, T.Y., Maire, M., Belongie, S., Hays, J., Perona, P., Ramanan, D., Doll´ ar, P.,
Zitnick, C.L.: Microsoft coco: Common objects in context. In: European conference
on computer vision. pp. 740–755. Springer (2014)
26. Mao, J., Gan, C., Kohli, P., Tenenbaum, J.B., Wu, J.: The neuro-symbolic concept
learner: Interpreting scenes, words, and sentences from natural supervision. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1904.12584 (2019)
27. Nickel, M., Murphy, K., Tresp, V., Gabrilovich, E.: A review of relational machine
learning for knowledge graphs. Proceedings of the IEEE 104(1), 11–33 (2015)
28. Paszke, A., Gross, S., Chintala, S., Chanan, G., Yang, E., DeVito, Z., Lin, Z.,
Desmaison, A., Antiga, L., Lerer, A.: Automatic diﬀerentiation in pytorch (2017)
29. Pennington, J., Socher, R., Manning, C.D.: Glove: Global vectors for word repre-
sentation. In: Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). pp.
1532–1543 (2014), http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D14-1162
30. Qiao, S., Chen, L.C., Yuille, A.: Detectors: Detecting objects with recursive fea-
ture pyramid and switchable atrous convolution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.02334
(2020)
31. Shi, J., Zhang, H., Li, J.: Explainable and explicit visual reasoning over scene
graphs. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition. pp. 8376–8384 (2019)
32. Srivastava, N., Hinton, G., Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., Salakhutdinov, R.:
Dropout: a simple way to prevent neural networks from overﬁtting. The journal of
machine learning research 15(1), 1929–1958 (2014)

[[page 17]]
Graphhopper 17
33. Tang, K., Niu, Y., Huang, J., Shi, J., Zhang, H.: Unbiased scene graph generation
from biased training. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 3716–3725 (2020)
34. Teney, D., Liu, L., van Den Hengel, A.: Graph-structured representations for visual
question answering. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition. pp. 1–9 (2017)
35. Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A.N., Kaiser,
 L., Polosukhin, I.: Attention is all you need. In: Advances in neural information
processing systems. pp. 5998–6008 (2017)
36. Veliˇ ckovi´ c, P., Cucurull, G., Casanova, A., Romero, A., Lio, P., Bengio, Y.: Graph
attention networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.10903 (2017)
37. Williams, R.J.: Simple statistical gradient-following algorithms for connectionist
reinforcement learning. Machine learning 8(3-4), 229–256 (1992)
38. Xiong, W., Hoang, T., Wang, W.Y.: Deeppath: A reinforcement learning method
for knowledge graph reasoning. In: Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empir-
ical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 2017). ACL, Copenhagen,
Denmark (9 2017)
39. Yang, Z., He, X., Gao, J., Deng, L., Smola, A.: Stacked attention networks for
image question answering. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition. pp. 21–29 (2016)
40. Yu, Z., Yu, J., Fan, J., Tao, D.: Multi-modal factorized bilinear pooling with co-
attention learning for visual question answering. In: Proceedings of the IEEE in-
ternational conference on computer vision. pp. 1821–1830 (2017)
41. Zhu, C., Zhao, Y., Huang, S., Tu, K., Ma, Y.: Structured attentions for visual ques-
tion answering. In: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision. pp. 1291–1300 (2017)

[[page 18]]
18 R. Koner et al.
A Details on Model Training and Inference
A.1 T raining Details
In order to optimize the training objective given by Equation (4), we use REIN-
FORCE [37] to obtain the gradient approximation
ˆg =
T−1∑
t=0
∇θ logπθ(At|St)(
T−1∑
t′ =t
Rt′γt
′
−t−B(St)), (6)
where γ is the discount factor for the reward. The gradient of the weights are
aggregated over multiple rollouts. To reduce the variance, we adopt a moving
average baseline functionB(St). The baseline function is an approximation of the
value of a state St. We could have employed more sophisticated methods such
as advantage network or actor-critic algorithm. However, we ﬁnd the current
baseline works suﬃciently well. Formally, the baseline function consists of a
non-trainable variable b and a hyperparameter λ. The baseline is updated by
bt+1 =λbt + (1−λ)rt at each optimization step. Another technique that aﬀects
the training speed is the reward normalization. Concretely, the accumulated
rewards at each time step for each rollout are collected and normalized after
subtraction of the baseline value.
We introduce a regularization term on the entropy of the resulting probability
distribution from the policy network πθ(At|St), which enforces that the agent
explores the SG. The regularization is controlled by a hyperparameter β. In
addition, we apply exponential decay to β during training so that β converges
to zero.
Moreover, we use the chain rule to calculate the gradients of the param-
eters of the graph encoder (GAT) θGAT and the question encoder (Trans-
former)θTransformer . The weight updates can be performed via gradient ascent,
θ←θ +ηˆg or more advanced optimization methods such as Adam [21].
A.2 Inference
Beam search is used to infer the answer to a given question. Our inference ap-
proach is based on evaluating how likely speciﬁc paths are appearing among all
possible paths with a ﬁxed length. More speciﬁcally, given an input question, the
agent’s initial location is given by the hub node. At each time step, the agent
scores the next permissible actions based on the learned policy. The value of ac-
tion represents the transition probability from the current node to a target node.
Next, we keep the top k (also known as beam width) paths among all possible
transitions and move the agent to the corresponding targets. This computation
is iteratively performed until the maximum number of transitions is reached. In
the end, we obtain multiple rollouts ranked by the path probabilities. The target
node (i.e. the last node) of the path is regarded as an answer candidate. Unlike
Monte Carlo sampling which does not consider path probabilities, beam search
yields better answer candidates, as it always chooses the best choice within the
search region. The algorithm for inference is summarized in table 2.

[[page 19]]
Graphhopper 19
Algorithm 1: Training regime
Input: Question Q, Scene GraphSG⊂E×R×E
Model : Policy Network with θ :={θGAT,θTransformer,θAgent}, Baseline
with b
1 for i← 0 to N do // Loop over epochs
2 Initialize Q andSG with GloVe embeddings;
3 Q← GAT(Q) // Update the question with the question encoder
4 SG← Transformer(SG) // Update the SG with the graph encoder
5 C← [] // Initialize the trajectory buffer
6 for r← 0 to N do // Loop over samples
7 τ← [] // Initialize the trajectory
8 E0← hub // Initialize the start position
9 A0← dummy // Initialize the dummy start action
10 for t← 0 to T do // Loop over time steps
11 if t%∆ == 0 then // Restart and prompt the agent to the
hub node
// so that the agent is aware of its own action
12 Et+1← hub // Set next nodes to the hub node
13 At+1← dummy // Set next actions to the dummy return
action
14 end
15 Sample an action (At, Et+1) from dt τ.append(At, Et) // Extend
the trajectory
16 Et←Et+1 // Move the agent to the next entity
17 end
18 C.append(τ) // Collect the trajectory
19 end
20 r←R(C) // Gather rewards
21 g← ∑T −1
t=0 ∇θ logπθ(at|st)(∑T −1
t′ =trt′γt
′
−t−b(st)) // Approximate
gradients
22 θ←θ +ηg // Update the policy network
23 b←b + (1−λ)r // Update the baseline function
24 end
Inference Complexity The inference of our method is computationally eﬃcient.
Unlike other methods that need to iterate through each candidate answer for
a ﬁnal prediction, we only need to run the inference once so that the score
of each answer is obtained. Let d denote the embedding dimension of the
words and entities. Analytically, the embedding stage has asymptotic complexity
O(|E| +|R| +|Q|). For the GAT, the implementation of a single attention head
and multi-head attention is similar. In particular, they have the same time com-
plexityO(|E|dd
′
+|R|d
′
). The computation of the question encoding is given
byO(|Q|2d). It is eﬃcient as it only runs once for each question and is used
for arbitrary times during random walks. Also, the length of the questions Q is
usually short (less than 30 words). Finally, during the random walk sampling,

[[page 20]]
20 R. Koner et al.
the agents complxity is given by O(T (D2 +|E|d)), where d is dominant. The
inference time depends largely on the path length.
Algorithm 2: Inference with beam search
Input: Question Q, Scene graphSG⊂E×R×E
Output: Answer
1 Initialize Q andSG with GloVe embeddings;
2 Q← GAT(Q) // Update the question with the question encoder
3 SG← Transformer(SG) // Update the SG with the graph encoder.
4 P← [] // Initialize the probability register
5 τ← [] // Initialize the trajectory
6 E0← hub // Initialize the start position
7 A0← dummy // Initialize the dummy start action
8 for t← 0 to T do // Loop over time steps
9 for r← 0 to N do // Loop over rollouts
10 if t%∆ == 0 then // Restart and prompt the agent to the hub
node
// so that the agent is aware of its own action
11 Et+1← hub // Set next nodes to the hub node
12 At+1← dummy // Set next actions to the dummy return
action
13 end
14 Forward pass through the policy network to generate candidate actions
{(At,Et)} along with their probabilities {pi} τ.append({(At,Et)})
// Extend the trajectory
15 P .append({pi}) // Store corresponding probabilities
16 end
17 indicies←argmax(P,k ) // Filter indices of top k probabilities
from P
18 τ←τ[indices] // Choose top k paths ranked by their probabilities
19 Et+1←e∈τ // Conduct corresponding transitions
20 end
21 Prediction←τ[0] // Predict the end entity of the top path as the
answer
A.3 Complexity Analysis
For analyzing the complexity of our method, we provide all the parameters
contained in the building blocks. Moreover, we present the number of operations
of a forward pass - the complete run that derives the answer from a given Q and
SG. They are listed in the table 3.

[[page 21]]
Graphhopper 21
Group Name No. Parameters No. Operations
Word Embeddings* Entity Ne×d O(N)
Relation Nr×D O(N)
GAT Conv layer weight d×H1 O(BHNe)
Conv layer attention d×H1 O(BHNe)
Conv layer bias H1 O(BHNe)
Transformer Positional encoder d×d O(Ne)
Layer self attention (qkv)Ht(512)×d 3×Ht×d
Self attn norm (W,b ) d 2×d
Layer enc attn Ht(512)×d 3×Ht×d
Enc attn norm (W,b ) d 2×d
Pos ﬀn 1 (W,b ) d×d +d d×d +d
Pos ﬀn 2 (W,b ) d×d +d d×d +d
Pos ﬀn norm(W,b ) 2d 2×d
Enc attn norm (W,b ) d 2×d
Agent-MLP Dense 0 4d× 4d + 4d (H× 4d + 4d)×T
Dense 1 2d× 4d + 2d (H× 2d + 2d)×T
Agent-LSTM Lstm cell Wih 4d× 16d (4d× 16d)×T
Lstm cell ih 16d (16d)×T
Lstm cell Whh 4d× 16d (4d× 16d)×T
Lstm cell bhh 16d (16d)×T
T able 3. An overview of the number parameters and the asymptotic number
of operations for the individual modules. The batch size is indicated by B. T
corresponds to the number of time steps. D and H denote the embedding size
and hidden size, respectively. Blocks are marked with a ”*” if their weights are
not trainable.
B Additional Details on the Dataset GQA
In this section we describe various question category and their type. We list the
question based on semantic and structural categories. We further grouped them
based on their entity type like object, attribute, category etc. Table 4, describes
the detailed list of question category.

[[page 22]]
22 R. Koner et al.
T able 4. List of question examples in the GQA dataset.
Category Type Description Example
Semantics
Object Existence of object Are there any doors that are not made of
metal?
Attribute Property about an object Does the soap dispenser that is to the right of
the other soap dispenser have small size and
white color?
Category Identify an object class What kind of animal is standing?
Relation Relationship of object What is the food that is to the left of the
white object that is to the left of the choco-
late called?
Global Overall scene property Which place is it?
Structural
Query Open-form question What type of furniture is to the left of the
silver device which is to the left of the helmet?
Choose Choose from alternatives What are the ﬂoating people in the ocean do-
ing, riding or swimming?
Verify Simple yes/no question Are there statues above the brass clock that
is on the building?
Compare Comparison of objects Are the drawers made of the same material
as the cages?
Logical And/or operators Are both the giraﬀe near the building and the
giraﬀe that is to the left of the tray standing?