[[page 1]]
SITUATED QA: Incorporating Extra-Linguistic Contexts into QA
Michael J.Q. Zhang and Eunsol Choi
Computer Science Department
The University of Texas at Austin
{mjqzhang, eunsol}@utexas.edu
Abstract
Answers to the same question may change de-
pending on the extra-linguistic contexts (when
and where the question was asked). To study
this challenge, we introduce S ITUATED QA,
an open-retrieval QA dataset where systems
must produce the correct answer to a question
given the temporal or geographical context.
To construct S ITUATED QA, we ﬁrst identify
such questions in existing QA datasets. We
ﬁnd that a signiﬁcant proportion of informa-
tion seeking questions have context-dependent
answers (e.g., roughly 16.5% of NQ-Open).
For such context-dependent questions, we then
crowdsource alternative contexts and their cor-
responding answers. Our study shows that ex-
isting models struggle with producing answers
that are frequently updated or from uncommon
locations. We further quantify how existing
models, which are trained on data collected in
the past, fail to generalize to answering ques-
tions asked in the present, even when provided
with an updated evidence corpus (a roughly 15
point drop in accuracy). Our analysis suggests
that open-retrieval QA benchmarks should in-
corporate extra-linguistic context to stay rel-
evant globally and in the future. Our data,
code, and datasheet are available at https:
//situatedqa.github.io/.
1 Introduction
Language reﬂects our ever-changing world; thus,
the meaning of a sentence depends on a variety
of extra-linguistic contexts, including when it was
stated, who stated it, and where it was stated. Fig-
ure 1 depicts examples of this, where the answer
to a question varies based on the temporal and ge-
ographical contexts. In this work, we study such
questions by exploring the affects of temporal and
geographical contexts in open-retrieval QA.
Ideally, QA systems should provide up-to-date,
localized answers to questions like those in Fig-
ure 1 that are situated in the inquirer’s temporal
Figure 1: Examples of questions with answers that
change depending on the temporal or geographical con-
text.
and geographical contexts. The existing paradigm
for evaluating QA systems, however, makes im-
plicit assumptions about time and location and does
not measure how well QA models adapt to new
contexts. Recent work studying other NLP tasks
have shown that this static paradigm misrepresents
how models perform in practical settings (Osborne
et al., 2014; Wang et al., 2008; Huang and Paul,
2018; Rijhwani and Preotiuc-Pietro, 2020). To ad-
dress this challenge, we introduce SITUATED QA, a
dataset comprised of questions from existing open-
retrieval QA datasets (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019)
that have been re-annotated for their their context-
dependence and answers across different situations
(i.e., temporal or geographical contexts).1
As we will see in Section 3, a signiﬁcant pro-
1In this work, we do not model temporal and geographical
contexts jointly for simplicity.
arXiv:2109.06157v1  [cs.CL]  13 Sep 2021

[[page 2]]
Questionq Context Typect Context Valuecv Answera
Who composed the music for the ﬁrst Harry Potter ﬁlm? - - -
What’s the biggest country in Europe excluding Russia? - - -
How many seasons are there for American Horror Story? TEMP Sep 18, 2019 10
Sep 13, 2017 9
Who made the most three point shots in the NBA? TEMP 2014 Ray Allen
2005 Reggie Miller
When was the last time states were created? GEO Nigeria 1 October 1996
United States 1959
Where do we rank among the world’s largest cities? GEO Tokyo 1st
Shanghai 3rd
Table 1: Examples of how questions interact with geographical and temporal context in S ITUATED QA. The ﬁrst
two questions are not identiﬁed as geographically nor temporally dependent.
portion of information-seeking questions are sen-
sitive to the two extra-linguistic contexts we study.
We annotate 9K questions from four existing
datasets (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019; Berant et al.,
2013; Clark et al., 2020; Campos et al., 2016) with
their temporal dependence and 2K questions for
their geographical dependence. Annotators ﬁnd
that up to 30% of questions in existing datasets
have answers that change over time, and rule-based
heuristics using an NER tagger identify that about
5% of questions specify a location. We collect
answers from different temporal and geographic
contexts for such context-dependent questions (see
Table 1).
Using our collected data, we evaluate whether
existing open-retrieval QA systems adapt to new
temporal or geographical contexts by providing an-
swers that are up-to-date or from new locations.
While it is often assumed that retrieval based sys-
tems for QA (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Guu et al.,
2020) can adapt to updated facts during inference
by simply updating the retrieval corpus, we ﬁnd
that this is not the case. State-of-the-art retrieval
based systems with updated corpora are 15 per-
centage points less accurate on questions whose
answers have been updated versus those that have
remained constant since the time when their large-
scale training dataset was collected. We also ob-
serve that models fail to generalize to answering
questions from new locations (Shankar et al., 2017),
with accuracy dropping by 10 percentage points
when asked to provide the answer from a rare loca-
tion versus a common one.
To support future research developing open-
retrieval QA systems which situate questions
within the inquirer’s extra-linguistic contexts, we
propose two tasks for modeling what facts change
across different extra-linguistic contexts and how
those facts change. We also provide ﬁne-grained
evaluations for measuring how well models adapt
to new temporal and geographical contexts. We
establish initial performance levels on our tasks by
adapting state-of-the-art methods for open-retrieval
QA (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Lewis et al., 2020a;
Roberts et al., 2020). Finally, we provide rich anal-
ysis of existing QA systems, which suggest that
benchmark construction should incorporate extra-
linguistic contexts to remain relevant globally and
in the future.
2 Deﬁnitions & Tasks
2.1 Deﬁning Extra-Linguistic Contexts
We begin by deﬁning the scope of contexts stud-
ied in this work. For a given question q, we say
that ai is its answer when asked in the context ci.
Each context consists of a type cti and a value cvi.
We study two context types: temporal (TEMP ) and
geographical ( GEO). TEMP deﬁnes each context
value as timestamp (e.g. a date or year) where ai
is the answer to q if it was asked at the time of cvi.
GEO deﬁnes each context value as a geopolitical
entity where ai is the answer to theq in the location
cvi. See Table 1 for examples from each context
type. We limit our study to valid questions, ignor-
ing presupposition cases (Kim et al., 2021) (e.g.,
asking who is the CEO of Google before Google
was founded).
2.2 Situated Question Answering
Given a question q and context ci, the task is to
produce the corresponding answer ai for the pro-
vided context. This task requires models to situate
the question within the provided extra-linguistic
context to produce an appropriate answer. Models

[[page 3]]
are evaluated on exact string match with annotated
answer ai and predicted answer ˆai after minor nor-
malization (Rajpurkar et al., 2016).
By evaluating on different sets of extra-linguistic
contexts of the same question, we can measure
whether models are able to generalize to new con-
texts. For instance, we can evaluate how models
perform on commonly versus rarely asked about
locations, or on questions whose answers changed
recently or long ago. Furthermore, this task allows
us to train systems that explicitly model how facts
change across different extra-linguistic contexts.
2.3 Context-Dependent Question
Identiﬁcation
In context-dependent question identiﬁcation, we
evaluate whether models can determine whether
the answer to a given question depends on its
extra-linguistic context. More formally, given a
question q and context type ct, models must de-
termine whether there exists two distinct contexts
values, (cvi, cvj ), with different respective answers,
ai ⁄= aj. We cast this as binary classiﬁcation and
evaluate models on their classiﬁcation accuracy, F1,
precision, and recall.
Identifying what facts change depending on the
extra-linguistic contexts is nontrivial even for hu-
man annotators that often requires extensive back-
ground knowledge on a subject. For example, de-
termining whether the capital of Kazakhstan has
changed requires speciﬁc knowledge of the nation’s
history. Identifying these questions has many prac-
tical applications, such as identifying suitable ques-
tions for QA systems that can only provide static
answers, an idea we will explore later in Section 6.
3 Data Collection
Here we describe the process for identifying
context-dependent questions and collecting an-
swers from alternate contexts. We split up data
collection into three stages which are depicted in
Figure 2: identiﬁcation, {Context / Answer} col-
lection, and validation. Additional data collection
details with interface screenshots can be found in
Appendix A.
3.1 Identiﬁcation
We source questions from a variety of datasets
for open-retrieval QA: Natural Questions (NQ-
Open) (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019), WebQues-
tions (Berant et al., 2013), TyDi-QA (Clark et al.,
2020), and MS-MARCO (Campos et al., 2016). All
of these datasets are in English and contain ques-
tions that are answerable by Wikipedia documents.
Temporally dependent questions are abundant in
existing datasets, as they are unambiguous during
annotation and annotators simply provide the cur-
rent answer at the time of collection. In contrast,
geographically dependent questions are often re-
jected during annotation due to their ambiguity, as
there is no consensus among annotators on the as-
sumed geographical context. To correct for this
scarcity, we generate geographically dependent
questions by modifying existing questions from
NQ-Open. We identify questions with phrases that
specify a location by running an NER tagger (Pe-
ters et al., 2017) and remove the location entity
using heuristics based on its syntactic role as iden-
tiﬁed by a dependency parser (Dozat and Manning,
2017). See Appendix A for full details.
For each question, we collect 3-way yes / maybe
/ no annotations for whether they are temporally or
geographically dependent. We label questions as
context dependent if at least two of annotators label
so. We discard questions with split annotations and
majority maybe annotations, and map the labels to
a binary yes/no label.2
3.2 {Context / Answer} Collection
After identifying context-dependent questions, we
then move on to collecting multiple {Context / An-
swer} pairs via crowdsourcing. For this part, we
exclusively use questions from NQ-Open dataset.
We allow crowdworkers to query an up-to-date ver-
sion of English Wikipedia using the Google Search
API.3 We outline the annotation process for each
context type below:
TEMP To construct SITUATED QA examples
with temporal context, we take two steps: (1) crowd
sourcing timeline for each question and (2) gener-
ating (q, cv, a) from the annotated timeline.
Crowdworkers are asked to provide a brief time-
line of answers for a given question, consisting of
the current answer, the previous answer, as well
as the start and end transition timestamps for each
answer given as dates or years (see Figure 2). From
annotated timeline and query pairs, we construct
examples of (q, cv, a) pairs in one of three ways
2These usually are highly ambiguous questions, such as
“What are the measurements of a vintage oil can?”, and total
discarded questions only accounts for 11% of the data.
3We use the February 20, 2021 dump of English
Wikipedia.

[[page 4]]
Figure 2: Data collection pipeline: Crowdworkers are ﬁrst asked to identify context dependent questions. We
then collect brief answer timelines for temporally dependent questions and location/answer pairs geographically
dependent questions, each of which is then veriﬁed by another worker.
which we refer to as Start, Sampled, and Static.
We describe each of these methods below:
Start examples simply use each answer’s start
transition timestamp as cv. This is intended to
simulate the common scenario of asking informa-
tion that is new or has recently changed. Sampled
examples use a timestamp that lies between an
answer’s start and end transition ascv. As each an-
swer in a timeline can result in many valid(q, cv, a)
pairs, we limit the number of values of cv for each
answer to a maximum of two. We uniformly sam-
ple up to two timestamps between each answers
start and end transition, using each sampled times-
tamp to create a new (q, cv, a) triple. Static ex-
amples utilize questions that were annotated as
not temporally-dependent to simulate realistic set-
tings where context dependent and independent
questions coexist. For each static question, we uni-
formly sample a single value of cv, resulting in one
(q, cv, a) triple per static question.
GEO We construct our evaluation datasets with
crowdsourcing. For each stripped question that was
annotated as geographically dependent during the
identiﬁcation stage, annotators were presented with
the question, the original answer(s), and stripped
location. Annotators ﬁrst validate whether the orig-
inal location and answer pair is correct for the
stripped question before identifying up to two addi-
tional location and answer pairs. We then use each
validated or identiﬁed pair to construct a (q, cv, a)
triple for the stripped question.
We construct our training set via distant supervi-
sion. Using our best performing context-dependent
question identiﬁcation model which we introduce
in Section 4, we classify unlabeled examples from
the NQ-Open training set. For each example that
was classiﬁed as geographically-dependent, we use
its original answer, location, and stripped question
to construct a (q, cv, a) triple.
3.3 Quality Control
Validation The {Context / Answer} annotations
collected above are reviewed by another annota-
tor in a ﬁnal validation stage. Presented with a
question along with all answer timelines or loca-
tion/answer pairs that have been generated by other
workers, annotators are asked to validate or revise
each response by marking them as correct or incor-
rect. We collect 2-way {Context / Answer} anno-
tations and have one validatator for each question
from the development and test sets. We collect
a single {Context / Answer} annotation and skip
validation for answer timelines from the training
set.
Worker Qualiﬁcations / Inter-annotator agree-
ment Table 2 reports Fleiss’s kappa for the con-
text dependent question identiﬁcation and valida-
tion stages. We ﬁnd moderate to high agreement all
tasks, with lower agreement on datasets with highly
ambiguous queries (e.g. how much to trust friends)
or questions require extensive domain knowledge
(e.g., what is the cause of smog in china?). For ge-
ographically dependent question answering, ques-
tions like “when were electric trains introduced"
had split votes from the annotators, as both geo-
graphically dependent and independent interpre-
tations are valid. Overall, we observe high qual-
ity data with comparable agreement numbers with
prior work, yet reafﬁrming prevalent ambiguity in
open retrieval QA (Min et al., 2021).
3.4 Data Statistics / Analysis
Table 2 shows the statistics of our collected dataset.
We annotated over 11K questions, and roughly 30-
40% of them where identiﬁed as context-dependent.
Temporally-dependent questions comprised of least

[[page 5]]
Identiﬁcation Data {Context / Answer} Data
Context Train Dev Test Agreement Train Dev Test Agreement
Type (ct) #q % #q % #q % Fleiss’κ #q,c v,a #q,c v,a #q,c v,a Fleiss’κ
TEMP 4438 36 2572 32 1962 28 0.62 6009 3423 2795 0.57
GEO 1149 46 879 42 367 37 0.56 3548 1398 505 0.56
Table 2: Dataset statistics. For our identiﬁcation dataset, we report both the total number of questions (#q) and the
percent of questions that are context-dependent (%). For our {Context / Answer} dataset, we report the number
of unique (question, context value, answer) triples (# q, cv, a). Each context type and split’s (q, cv, a) triples are
collected slightly differently, see Section 3.2 for details. We also report inter-annotator agreement on context
dependent question identiﬁcation and {Context / Answer} validation.
Figure 3: The distribution of temporally dependent
questions by the duration its previous answer was true
for with examples.
10% of examples in all datasets we looked at, even
without any ﬁltering. We also found that examples
from Natural Questions where at least one answer
span is within a table in its evidence document are
more often temporally-dependent. To construct
our ﬁnal dataset, we upsample such questions. We
followed the original train, development, and test
split for each dataset, which caused slight incon-
sistencies in the proportion of examples from each
dataset across splits, simulating a domain shift.
For 2.8K of those context-dependent questions
(2.4K temporal, 0.5K geographical), we collected a
total of 5.9K answers from alternate contexts (4.0K
temporal, 1.9K geographical). From those alter-
nate temporal context / answer pairs, we construct
(q, cv, a) by sampling valid dates, creating 6K ex-
amples. The ﬁnal TEMP dataset also includes 6.7K
examples from temporally-independent questions.
More details and statistics on individual datasets
can be found in the in Appendix A.
How often do temporally dependent facts
change? We investigate how frequently answers
change by measuring the distance between the the
two most recent answers. Figure 3 depicts how
long the previous answer was valid for. We observe
a long tailed distribution, with a large proportion
of answers changing around the one year mark.
4 Models
In this section, we describe our baseline models
for context-dependent question identiﬁcation and
situated QA. Details on our learning settings and
hyperparameters are in Appendix D.
4.1 Context Dependent Question
Identiﬁcation
As a lower bound, we provide a naive random-
choice baseline, where labels are randomly as-
signed to match the label distribution in the training
data. We also train separate BERT-based classiﬁers,
which encode the input question q using BERT and
classify based on each question’s encoded[CLS]
token representation. We experiment with both
BERT-base and BERT-large. We approximate hu-
man performance by sampling 50 examples for
temporal context and geographical context each,
and re-collecting annotations from a new set of
crowdworkers.
4.2 Situated Question Answering
There are two types of models for open retrieval
QA: retrieval based (open book) and closed book.
Retrieval based models (Karpukhin et al., 2020;
Lee et al., 2019; Guu et al., 2020) answer questions
by retrieving relevant passages from a corpus be-
fore producing an answer based on the retrieved
passages. Closed book approaches (Roberts et al.,
2020; Lewis et al., 2020a; Févry et al., 2020) do
not rely on access to a corpus during inference,
instead use the knowledge that has been stored in
the model’s parameters. These models, which typ-
ically have a large number of parameters and are
trained over a single snapshot of web data, generate
answers from each question.
We present two competitive baselines: one
retrieval-based model, DPR (Karpukhin et al.,
2020), and one closed-book model, BART-large

[[page 6]]
Context (ct,c v) Augmented Question
(TEMP, 2017 ) Who went number 1 in the WNBA
draft as of 2017?
(GEO, TOKYO ) Where do we rank among the
world’s largest citiesin Tokyo?
Table 3: Examples of modiﬁed queries. Text shown
in bold is concatenated onto the original question. To
query for the answer for some context where ct =
TEMP or ct = GEO, we append the phrase “as of cv”
or “in cv”, replacing cv with the context value.
(Lewis et al., 2020a).4 Both baselines are trained
on NQ-Open (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019; Lee et al.,
2019). We use the best performing model conﬁg-
uration from DPR paper, but swap the retrieval
corpus with an up-to-date Wikipedia dump (times-
tamped 2021-Feb-20). In standard settings, DPR
achieves an accuracy of 41.5 and BART achieves an
accuracy of 24.1 on NQ-Open. We use these base-
lines in three settings which we introduce below:
unmodiﬁed, query modiﬁed, and query modiﬁed
with ﬁnetuning.
We also approximate human performance on sit-
uated QA using 100 randomly sampled examples
from each context type which are annotated by the
authors of this paper. While our estimated human
performance appear somewhat low, they are in line
with agreement rates in the original Natural Ques-
tions study (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019) and are tied
to the challenges of evaluating open-retrieval QA.
Discrepancies are often due to ambiguous ques-
tions or equivalent answer forms (e.g., July 5, 1945
vs. 5 July 1945, The Patriots vs. New England Pa-
triots). The latter is especially problematic for ge-
ographically dependent questions, where answers
involving time expression occur much more fre-
quently, comprising over 50% of examples. See
Appendix A for more details.
Unmodiﬁed Baseline We evaluate open-
retrieval QA models on our task without any
alterations. Each model is only given the question,
ignoring the extra-linguistic context, and thus
predicts the same answer no matter the context.
For temporally-dependent questions, models are
expected to output the most up-to-date answer. For
geographically-dependent questions, models must
assume some geographical context to produce an
answer.
4We use the pretrained model and implemen-
tation from https://github.com/shmsw25/
bart-closed-book-qa .
Query Modiﬁed One simple method for incor-
porating extra-linguistic contexts into question an-
swering is to concatenate the context onto the ques-
tion, separated by some special token. We adopt a
slightly different approach that leverages what mod-
els have already learned about producing answers
from speciﬁc contexts: concatenating a phrase that
speciﬁes the relevant context onto each question,
transforming it into a context-independent ques-
tion. The concatenation templates for each context
type are described in Table 3. We ﬁnd that these
simple modiﬁcations mostly generate valid, ﬂuent
questions that closely resemble examples found in
our models’ training data. We estimate that 10%
of questions in NQ-Open contain similar augmen-
tations, inserting or concatenating a phrase that
speciﬁes the context (See Appendix B for details).
Query Modiﬁed w/ Finetuning We also experi-
ment with ﬁnetuning our query modiﬁed baselines.
For our retrieval based approach (DPR), we ﬁne-
tune separate the reader and retriever models for
each context type. We ﬁnetune retriever models
using gold and hard-negative passages from the re-
trieval results of our Query Modiﬁed DPR baseline.
Likewise, we also ﬁnetune separate closed book
models for each context type.
5 Results
5.1 Context Dependent Question
Identiﬁcation
Table 4 reports our results on context dependent
question identiﬁcation. We ﬁnd that pretrained lan-
guage models perform competitively in this binary
classiﬁcation task, matching human agreements.
Thus, it may be a useful tool for identifying context
dependent questions which closed book systems
are poorly suited for or identifying examples in
benchmark datasets that require re-annotation.
5.2 Situated Question Answering
Table 5 shows our results on the situated QA task.
All models lag behind our estimated human-level
performance by a signiﬁcant margin, especially
for temporally dependent questions. Overall, re-
trieval based models outperform closed book mod-
els, as in the original QA datasets (41.5 EM vs.
24.1 EM). We ﬁnd that applying our query modi-
ﬁcations to the question works well for geographi-
cally dependent questions, but see no improvement
for temporally dependent questions. Finetuning

[[page 7]]
TEMP GEO
Model Accuracy Precision Recall F1 Accuracy Precision Recall F1
Random 45.3 / 44.8 31.9 / 28.3 61.7 / 64.9 42.1 / 39.4 49.7 / 48.0 42.3 / 38.1 54.2 / 62.8 47.5 / 47.4
BERTbase 94.5 / 93.5 94.2 / 92.7 88.5 / 83.1 91.2 / 87.6 86.0 / 79.6 79.0 / 67.4 90.8 / 87.6 84.5 / 76.2
BERTlarge 95.7 / 93.8 94.7 / 91.2 91.7 / 85.9 93.2 / 88.5 86.1 / 80.7 80.3 / 69.9 88.6 / 84.7 84.3 / 76.6
Human∗ 96.0 / 94.0 88.9 / 83.3 100 / 100 94.1 / 90.9 88.0 / 84.0 76.5 / 72.7 86.7 / 88.9 81.2 / 80.0
Table 4: Results for context-dependent question identiﬁcation. Each cell report results on development / test set.
Query
Mod.
Fine-
tuned
TEMP GEO
Static (400) Samp. (1472) Start (923) Total Comm. (265) Rare (240) Total
Retrieval
based
44.2 16.0 14.2 19.4 9.1 2.9 6.1
✓ 28.8 15.9 18.5 18.6 27.5 22.1 25.0
✓ ✓ 39.8 17.2 24.9 23.0 27.9 25.0 26.5
Closed
Book
27.2 15.3 12.9 16.2 9.4 4.6 7.1
✓ 19.5 12.4 15.7 14.5 19.2 9.2 14.5
✓ ✓ 26.0 16.2 18.3 18.3 21.5 11.7 16.8
Human∗ - - - 57.0 - - 34.0
Table 5: Results situated question answering, reporting exact match score on the test set. In addition to reporting
overall EM for each context type, we also report EM for partitions of the test set. For TEMP , we partition the test
set based on how the example’s context value was generated. For GEO, we split on whether the context-value is a
location is common (Comm.) or uncommon (Rare), which is determined by whether the location appears at least
ﬁve times in our dataset as a geographical context.
Query
Mod.
Fine-
tuned
TEMP GEO
One Any One Any
Retrieval
based
19.4 28.1 6.1 22.6
✓ 18.6 26.4 25.0 30.7
✓ ✓ 23.0 29.7 26.5 32.3
Closed
Book
16.2 24.0 7.1 25.1
✓ 14.5 19.9 14.5 22.6
✓ ✓ 18.3 25.9 16.8 24.4
Table 6: Breakdown of errors from context dependent
QA. We report EM accuracy evaluated against answers
from the correct context ( One) and answers from the
union of all our annotated contexts (Any).
models on answers from multiple extra-linguistic
contexts with modiﬁed questions improved perfor-
mance across the board, especially for the TEMP
context type.
Adding TEMP context to static questions dis-
tracts the model, signiﬁcantly decreasing perfor-
mance especially for the closed book baseline. This
suggests that models are not robust to semanti-
cally equivalent edits, as observed in Ribeiro et al.
(2020). Models also perform better when provided
with an answer’s start date as context compared
to a sampled date, which falls between the tran-
sitions between answers. This gap is especially
pronounced for our retrieval based model.
US India Other Rare
# of Examples 42 20 203 240
Retrieval Based 23.8 10.0 5.9 2.9
Closed Book 23.8 10.0 6.4 4.6
Table 7: Results of our unmodiﬁed baseline run onGEO.
We further break down performance common locations
by separating the two most common ones, the “United
States” and “India”, the “Other” common locations.
Do systems performance vary based on the fre-
quency of geographic context? Table 5 splits
results on GEO questions into those from com-
mon and rare locations, many of which unseen
during training. Both methods have greater difﬁ-
culty with rare locations; however, the drop in per-
formance for closed book models is signiﬁcantly
worse. Closed book models perform 10 percentage
points worse on questions from rare locations while
retrieval based models only perform 3 points worse.
These ﬁndings show that retrieval based systems
generalize better to new locations and are better
equipped for answering geographically dependent
questions. We also see that the gap in performance
between common and rare locations shrinks for
both models after ﬁnetuning, suggesting that ex-
plicitly modeling geographical contexts helps with
generalization.

[[page 8]]
Query
Mod.
Fine-
tuned
Current Previous Total
529 373 902
Retrieval
based
19.5 6.2 14.0
✓ 19.5 6.4 14.1
✓ ✓ 22.5 11.3 17.8
Closed
Book
18.5 4.0 12.5
✓ 18.5 4.8 12.9
✓ ✓ 18.9 8.0 14.4
Human∗ - - 51.0
Table 8: Results on training our baselines on predicting
the current and previous answers to a question. Human
performance is estimated using 100 randomly sampled
examples annotated by the authors of this paper.
What is the assumed context for a geograph-
ically dependent question? When presented
with a geographically dependent question with-
out the context, open retrieval QA models must
assume some geographical context to produce an
answer. We hypothesize that models will exhibit
bias toward assuming the few geographical co-texts
are most frequently asked about. We test this by
reporting the results of our unmodiﬁed baseline,
further breaking down the results from Table 5 by
individual location. Each time the unmodiﬁed base-
line correctly answers a question for some location,
it did so by assuming that location as its context.
We report our results in In Table 7, which show
that models are heavily biased toward assuming
the question was asked by someone in the United
States or India.
How often do models provide answers from the
wrong context? In Table 6, we report error anal-
ysis for our situated QA baselines that shows how
often models are provide the answer from the spec-
iﬁed context versus the union of all annotated con-
texts. We see that models often fail to incorporate
extra-linguistic contexts into the question, produc-
ing the answer from another context.
6 Analysis
Can QA systems differentiate and recall previ-
ous answers to a question? To answer this, we
study a new setting where we query models for
the current and previous answer to a given ques-
tion. Following the same steps as above for the
TEMP and GEO context types, we develop a suite of
retrieval-based and closed-book baselines for this
new setting. Our query-modiﬁed baselines in this
setting consist of prepending the word “previously”
to the beginning of each question to query for the
Fine- Knowledge Stable Updated
tuned Source Date 267 209
Retrieval
Based
Wiki. Dec 2018 27.3 7.2
Wiki. Feb 2021 26.6 11.5
✓ Wiki. Feb 2021 28.1 17.2
Closed
Book
Feb 2019 28.8 5.3
✓ Feb 2019 28.1 6.7
Table 9: Results on the default open-retrieval QA set-
ting where all questions are assumed to be about the
present timestamp (Feb 2021), evaluation split by ques-
tions that require updating the world state to after the
large scale training dataset was collected,Updated, and
questions where answers didn’t change since the data
collection, Stable. Our retrieval based systems use the
English Wikipedia dumps from 2018-12-20 and 2021-
02-20 while our closed book systems are pretrained on
data from 2019-02 and earlier.
previous answer. In the existing framing of QA,
all questions are looking for the current answer we
do no augmentations to query for the current an-
swer. For our ﬁnetuned baselines, we train separate
reader models and closed book models to query for
current and previous answers.
We report our results for these experiments in
Table 8. We ﬁnd that models are far better at pro-
ducing the current answer versus past answers to
a question. Finetuning, however, greatly increases
performance on queries for previous answers.
Can QA systems trained on outdated answers
adapt to the present? We investigate whether
QA systems that are pretrained on outdated cor-
pora and that are trained on large-scale QA datasets
containing outdated answers can adapt to answer-
ing questions situated in the present. Lewis et al.
(2020b) shows that updating the corpera of retrieval
based models can be effective method for updat-
ing simple facts, such as current heads of state.
We test whether this extends to a broader range
of temporally-dependent facts by evaluating our
baselines introduced above on their ability to pre-
dict the current answer in our dataset, which are
up-to-date as of Feb 2021. We split the current an-
swers into two categories, stable where answer did
not change since 2018, and updated where answer
changed after 2018. We chose 2018 as a thresh-
old as it is when Natural Questions (Kwiatkowski
et al., 2019) was collected and roughly matches the
timestamp of the most recent data our closed book
model (Lewis et al., 2020a) was pretrained on (Feb
2019).
Table 9 shows that, while retrieval based models

[[page 9]]
were able to update some world knowledge after
swapping the retrieval corpus, signiﬁcant gains on
updated questions only come after ﬁnetuning with
newer data. This suggests that simply updating the
corpora that models retrieve passages from is not
sufﬁcient to keep models up-to-date.
7 Related Work
Comparison to other QA datasets While a few
prior studies mention that answers to a question can
change over time (Min et al., 2020), no prior work
investigated the performance of existing models on
temporally dependent queries and their prevalence.
Addressing ambiguous questions (Min et al.,
2020) overlaps with our study, as ambiguity can
arise from extra-linguistic contexts. Their study
found 13% of examples were ambiguous due to
temporal deixis. However, we found that context-
dependence can co-occur with inherent ambigui-
ties in the question which cannot be resolved with
context. Thus, this ﬁgure underestimates the true
proportion of temporally dependent questions. Fur-
thermore, humans don’t always consider context-
dependent questions as ambiguous when there is
only one answer given the context, which is nor-
mally assumed to be present time and location.
Thus, ambiguities that arise due to lack of con-
text should, therefore, be modeled separately from
semantic ambiguities of the question.
Recent work has also studied generating
temporally-dependent questions with timestamped
answers from temporal knowledge-bases (Chen
et al., 2021; Saxena et al., 2021). Similarly, Dhin-
gra et al. (2021) generates temporally-dependent
cloze-style prompts and presents a temporally
aware language model to address them. These
works, however, synthetically generate examples
and are therefore limited in scope and diversity.
In contrast, we manually annotate temporally and
geographically dependent questions.
Temporal understanding Temporal understand-
ing in NLP has been typically studied in an intra-
document setting, i.e., ordering events or ﬁnding
temporal relationship between two events in the
same document (Pustejovsky et al., 2003; Bethard
et al., 2007; Cassidy et al., 2014; Llorens et al.,
2015; Zhou et al., 2020).
Dynamic evaluation Dynamic evaluation has
been studied under the language modeling (Os-
borne et al., 2014; Yogatama et al., 2014), topic
modeling (Wang et al., 2008) and entity link-
ing (Rijhwani and Preotiuc-Pietro, 2020). Recent
work (Lazaridou et al., 2021) studied temporal drift
in the context of large scale pretrained language
model, hinting reusing models from previous snap-
shot can cause performance decay, as we observe
in our study as well.
Adversarial, phased data collection has been pro-
posed (Paperno et al., 2016; Zellers et al., 2018;
Potts et al., 2020) to drive model development, con-
stantly feeding models examples that current mod-
els are unable to address. We suggest collecting
questions dynamically for slightly different goal,
to accurately reﬂect the changing world by identi-
fying temporally dependent facts from such bench-
marks and continuously updating them. Building
a benchmark based on a ﬁxed snapshot (Petroni
et al., 2021) can be a viable alternative.
Researchers studied keeping knowledge sources
up-to-date. Konovalov et al. (2017) looked at
the constantly changing facts from the perspective
of automatically extracting knowledgebase revi-
sions. Schuster et al. (2021) presents contrastive
sentences based on Wikipedia revisions, showing
how entailment decision can change over time.
8 Conclusion & Future Work
We present the ﬁrst study of how extra-linguistic
contexts affect open retrieval QA. Our study re-
veals that current systems fail to adapt to shifts in
the temporal or geographical context. We, there-
fore, propose tasks and create a dataset for training
and evaluating QA systems on modeling how facts
change across contexts. Our dataset will support
ample future work for developing models which
can gracefully update its predictions based on new
temporal and geographical contexts. Future re-
search may address incorporating in temporally
and geographically dependent source documents,
such as news articles, or considering other extra-
linguistic contexts such as who is asking the ques-
tion, taking individual’s preferences into account.
Acknowledgement
We would like to thank Sewon Min, Raymond
Mooney, and members of UT NLP group for com-
ments and discussions. The work is partially
funded by Google Faculty Awards.

[[page 10]]
References
Jonathan Berant, Andrew K. Chou, Roy Frostig, and
Percy Liang. 2013. Semantic parsing on freebase
from question-answer pairs. In Proceedings of the
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP).
Steven Bethard, James H. Martin, and Sara Klingen-
stein. 2007. Timelines from text: Identiﬁcation of
syntactic temporal relations. International Confer-
ence on Semantic Computing (ICSC), pages 11–18.
Daniel Fernando Campos, T. Nguyen, M. Rosenberg,
Xia Song, Jianfeng Gao, Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan
Majumder, L. Deng, and Bhaskar Mitra. 2016. Ms
marco: A human generated machine reading com-
prehension dataset. ArXiv, abs/1611.09268.
T. Cassidy, Bill McDowell, Nathanael Chambers, and
Steven Bethard. 2014. An annotation framework for
dense event ordering. In Proceedings of the Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (ACL).
Danqi Chen, Adam Fisch, Jason Weston, and Antoine
Bordes. 2017. Reading Wikipedia to answer open-
domain questions. In Proceedings of the Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (ACL).
Wenhu Chen, Xinyi Wang, and William Yang Wang.
2021. A dataset for answering time-sensitive ques-
tions. ArXiv, abs/2108.06314.
Eunsol Choi, He He, Mohit Iyyer, Mark Yatskar, Wen
tau Yih, Yejin Choi, Percy Liang, and Luke Zettle-
moyer. 2018. Quac : Question answering in con-
text. Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP),
abs/1808.07036.
J. Clark, Eunsol Choi, M. Collins, Dan Garrette,
T. Kwiatkowski, V . Nikolaev, and Jennimaria Palo-
maki. 2020. Tydi qa: A benchmark for information-
seeking question answering in typologically diverse
languages. Transactions of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (TACL), 8:454–470.
J. Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina
Toutanova. 2019. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidi-
rectional transformers for language understanding.
In Proceedings of the Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies
(NAACL-HLT).
Bhuwan Dhingra, Jeremy R. Cole, Julian Martin Eisen-
schlos, D. Gillick, Jacob Eisenstein, and William W.
Cohen. 2021. Time-aware language models as tem-
poral knowledge bases. ArXiv, abs/2106.15110.
Timothy Dozat and Christopher D. Manning. 2017.
Deep biafﬁne attention for neural dependency pars-
ing. ArXiv, abs/1611.01734.
Dheeru Dua, Yizhong Wang, Pradeep Dasigi, Gabriel
Stanovsky, Sameer Singh, and Matt Gardner. 2019.
Drop: A reading comprehension benchmark requir-
ing discrete reasoning over paragraphs. In Proceed-
ings of the Conference of the North American Chap-
ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies (NAACL-HLT).
Jacob Eisenstein, Brendan T. O’Connor, Noah A.
Smith, and E. Xing. 2010. A latent variable model
for geographic lexical variation. In Proceedings of
the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP).
Thibault Févry, Livio Baldini Soares, Nicholas FitzGer-
ald, Eunsol Choi, and T. Kwiatkowski. 2020. Enti-
ties as experts: Sparse memory access with entity
supervision. In Proceedings of the Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP).
Matt Gardner, Joel Grus, Mark Neumann, Oyvind
Tafjord, Pradeep Dasigi, Nelson F. Liu, Matthew
Peters, Michael Schmitz, and Luke S. Zettlemoyer.
2017. Allennlp: A deep semantic natural language
processing platform.
Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pa-
supat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. REALM:
Retrieval-augmented language model pre-training.
Proceedings of the International Conference on Ma-
chine Learning (ICML).
Johannes Hoffart, Fabian M. Suchanek, Klaus
Berberich, and Gerhard Weikum. 2013. Yago2: A
spatially and temporally enhanced knowledge base
from wikipedia. Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 194:28–61.
Xiaolei Huang and Michael J. Paul. 2018. Examining
temporality in document classiﬁcation. Proceedings
of the Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics (ACL).
Jena D. Hwang, Chandra Bhagavatula, Ronan Le Bras,
Jeff Da, Keisuke Sakaguchi, Antoine Bosselut, and
Yejin Choi. 2020. Comet-atomic 2020: On symbolic
and neural commonsense knowledge graphs. ArXiv,
abs/2010.05953.
Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas O ˘guz, Sewon Min, Ledell
Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau Yih.
2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain
question answering. Proceedings of the Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing (EMNLP).
Nora Kassner and H. Schutze. 2020. Negated and
misprimed probes for pretrained language models:
Birds can talk, but cannot ﬂy. In Proceedings of
the Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics (ACL).
Najoung Kim, Ellie Pavlick, Burcu Karagol Ayan,
and D. Ramachandran. 2021. Which linguist in-
vented the lightbulb? presupposition veriﬁcation
for question-answering. Proceedings of the Annual

[[page 11]]
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (ACL).
A. Konovalov, Benjamin Strauss, Alan Ritter, and Bren-
dan T. O’Connor. 2017. Learning to extract events
from knowledge base revisions. Proceedings of the
26th International Conference on World Wide Web.
T. Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Red-
ﬁeld, Michael Collins, Ankur P. Parikh, C. Alberti,
D. Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, J. Devlin, Kenton Lee,
Kristina Toutanova, Llion Jones, Matthew Kelcey,
Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew M. Dai, Jakob Uszkor-
eit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. 2019. Natural ques-
tions: A benchmark for question answering research.
Transactions of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (TACL), 7:453–466.
A. Lazaridou, Adhiguna Kuncoro, E. Gribovskaya,
Devang Agrawal, Adam Liska, Tayfun Terzi, Mai
Gimenez, Cyprien de Masson d’Autume, Sebastian
Ruder, Dani Yogatama, Kris Cao, Tomás Kociský,
Susannah Young, and P. Blunsom. 2021. Pitfalls of
static language modelling. ArXiv, abs/2102.01951.
Kenton Lee, Ming-Wei Chang, and Kristina Toutanova.
2019. Latent retrieval for weakly supervised open
domain question answering. In Proceedings of
the Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics (ACL) , pages 6086–6096, Flo-
rence, Italy. Association for Computational Linguis-
tics.
Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Mar-
jan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman Mohamed, Omer
Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer.
2020a. BART: Denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-
training for natural language generation, translation,
and comprehension. In Proceedings of the Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (ACL), pages 7871–7880, Online. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandara Piktus,
F. Petroni, V . Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Kuttler, M. Lewis, Wen tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020b.
Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-
intensive nlp tasks. Proceedings of Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Xin Li and D. Roth. 2002. Learning question classi-
ﬁers. In Proceedings of the International Confer-
ence on Computational Linguistics (COLING).
Xiao Ling and Daniel S. Weld. 2010. Temporal infor-
mation extraction. In Proceedings of the AAAI Con-
ference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence.
Hector Llorens, Nathanael Chambers, N. UzZaman,
N. Mostafazadeh, James F. Allen, and J. Pustejovsky.
2015. Semeval-2015 task 5: Qa tempeval - evaluat-
ing temporal information understanding with ques-
tion answering. In SemEval@NAACL-HLT.
Sewon Min, Jordan L. Boyd-Graber, C. Alberti, Danqi
Chen, Eunsol Choi, Michael Collins, Kelvin Guu,
Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Kenton Lee, Jennimaria Palo-
maki, Colin Raffel, Adam Roberts, T. Kwiatkowski,
Patrick Lewis, Yuxiang Wu, Heinrich Kuttler,
L. Liu, Pasquale Minervini, Pontus Stenetorp, Se-
bastian Riedel, Sohee Yang, Minjoon Seo, Gau-
tier Izacard, F. Petroni, Lucas Hosseini, Nicola De
Cao, E. Grave, Ikuya Yamada, Sonse Shimaoka,
Masatoshi Suzuki, Shumpei Miyawaki, S. Sato, Ryo
Takahashi, J. Suzuki, Martin Fajcik, Martin Docekal,
Karel Ondrej, P. Smrz, Hao Cheng, Y . Shen, X. Liu,
Pengcheng He, W. Chen, Jianfeng Gao, Barlas O˘guz,
Xilun Chen, V . Karpukhin, Stanislav Peshterliev,
Dmytro Okhonko, M. Schlichtkrull, Sonal Gupta,
Yashar Mehdad, and Wen tau Yih. 2021. Neurips
2020 efﬁcientqa competition: Systems, analyses and
lessons learned. ArXiv, abs/2101.00133.
Sewon Min, Julian Michael, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and
Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020. Ambigqa: Answering am-
biguous open-domain questions. In Proceedings of
the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP).
Miles Osborne, Ashwin Lall, and Benjamin
Van Durme. 2014. Exponential reservoir sampling
for streaming language models. In Proceedings
of the Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Denis Paperno, Germán Kruszewski, Angeliki Lazari-
dou, Ngoc Quan Pham, Raffaella Bernardi, San-
dro Pezzelle, Marco Baroni, Gemma Boleda, and
Raquel Fernandez. 2016. The LAMBADA dataset:
Word prediction requiring a broad discourse context.
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Matthew E. Peters, Waleed Ammar, Chandra Bhagavat-
ula, and R. Power. 2017. Semi-supervised sequence
tagging with bidirectional language models. In Pro-
ceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Fabio Petroni, Aleksandra Piktus, Angela Fan, Patrick
Lewis, Majid Yazdani, Nicola De Cao, James
Thorne, Yacine Jernite, Vladimir Karpukhin, Jean
Maillard, Vassilis Plachouras, Tim Rocktäschel, and
Sebastian Riedel. 2021. KILT: a benchmark for
knowledge intensive language tasks.
Fabio Petroni, Tim Rocktäschel, A. H. Miller, P. Lewis,
A. Bakhtin, Y . Wu, and S. Riedel. 2019. Language
models as knowledge bases? In Proceedings of the
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP).
Karl Pichotta and R. Mooney. 2014. Statistical script
learning with multi-argument events. In Proceed-
ings of the Conference of the European Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(EACL).

[[page 12]]
Christopher Potts, Zhengxuan Wu, A. Geiger,
and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Dynasent: A dy-
namic benchmark for sentiment analysis. ArXiv,
abs/2012.15349.
J. Pustejovsky, J. Castaño, R. Ingria, R. Saurí,
R. Gaizauskas, A. Setzer, G. Katz, and Dragomir R.
Radev. 2003. Timeml: Robust speciﬁcation of event
and temporal expressions in text. In New Directions
in Question Answering.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2020. Exploring the lim-
its of transfer learning with a uniﬁed text-to-text
transformer. Journal of Machine Learning Research,
21(140):1–67.
Pranav Rajpurkar, Robin Jia, and Percy Liang. 2018.
Know what you don’t know: Unanswerable ques-
tions for squad. Proceedings of the Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(ACL).
Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and
Percy Liang. 2016. Squad: 100,000+ questions for
machine comprehension of text. In Proceedings of
the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP).
Marco Túlio Ribeiro, Tongshuang Wu, Carlos Guestrin,
and Sameer Singh. 2020. Beyond accuracy: Behav-
ioral testing of nlp models with checklist. In Pro-
ceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Shruti Rijhwani and Daniel Preotiuc-Pietro. 2020.
Temporally-informed analysis of named entity
recognition. In Proceedings of the Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(ACL).
Adam Roberts, Colin Raffel, and Noam Shazeer. 2020.
How much knowledge can you pack into the param-
eters of a language model? In Proceedings of the
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP).
Apoorv Saxena, Soumen Chakrabarti, and Partha P.
Talukdar. 2021. Question answering over temporal
knowledge graphs. In Proceedings of the Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (ACL).
Tal Schuster, A. Fisch, and R. Barzilay. 2021. Get
your vitamin c! robust fact veriﬁcation with con-
trastive evidence. Proceedings of the Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies (NAACL-HLT), abs/2103.08541.
S. Shankar, Yoni Halpern, Eric Breck, J. Atwood,
J. Wilson, and D. Sculley. 2017. No classiﬁca-
tion without representation: Assessing geodiversity
issues in open data sets for the developing world.
arXiv: Machine Learning.
Matthew Sims, Jong Ho Park, and David Bamman.
2019. Literary event detection. In Proceedings of
the Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics (ACL).
Alon Talmor, Ori Yoran, Amnon Catav, Dan Lahav,
Yizhong Wang, Akari Asai, Gabriel Ilharco, Han-
naneh Hajishirzi, and Jonathan Berant. 2021. Mul-
timodal{qa}: complex question answering over text,
tables and images. In International Conference on
Learning Representations (ICLR).
Siddharth Vashishtha, Benjamin Van Durme, and
A. White. 2019. Fine-grained temporal relation ex-
traction. In Proceedings of the Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(ACL).
C. Wang, D. Blei, and D. Heckerman. 2008. Continu-
ous time dynamic topic models. In UAI.
Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien
Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pier-
ric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Fun-
towicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von
Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Can-
wen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama
Drame, Quentin Lhoest, and Alexander M. Rush.
2020. Transformers: State-of-the-art natural lan-
guage processing. In Proceedings of the Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing (EMNLP): System Demonstrations , pages 38–
45, Online. Association for Computational Linguis-
tics.
Dani Yogatama, C. Wang, Bryan R. Routledge, Noah A.
Smith, and E. Xing. 2014. Dynamic language mod-
els for streaming text. Transactions of the Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics (TACL), 2:181–
192.
Rowan Zellers, Yonatan Bisk, Roy Schwartz, and Yejin
Choi. 2018. Swag: A large-scale adversarial dataset
for grounded commonsense inference. In Proceed-
ings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Ben Zhou, Qiang Ning, Daniel Khashabi, and D. Roth.
2020. Temporal common sense acquisition with
minimal supervision. Proceedings of the Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (ACL), abs/2005.04304.
Ben Zhou, Kyle Richardson, Qiang Ning, Tushar Khot,
Ashish Sabharwal, and D. Roth. 2021. Temporal
reasoning on implicit events from distant supervi-
sion. Proceedings of the Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies
(NAACL-HLT).

[[page 13]]
Appendix
A Data Collection Details
Data Composition For NaturalQuestions and
WebQuestions, we use the open-domain splits es-
tablished in (Lee et al., 2019) and we only consider
questions from TyDi-QA that are written in En-
glish. We randomly sampled the questions from all
datasets except for NQ, where the ratio of tempo-
rally dependent questions was low (around 15%).
Initial pilot tests showed that questions where the
answer span is within a table in its evidence doc-
ument (we refer these as NQ-Table) are more of-
ten temporally dependent compared to questions
where answers are found only in paragraphs (we
refer these as NQ-Passage). To better target tem-
porally dependent questions, we sampled heavily
from NQ-Table. The source dataset statistics can
be found in Table 10, and proportion of temporally
dependent questions in each dataset can be found
in Table 11.
Geographically Dependent Question Genera-
tion To generate geographically dependent ques-
tions, we ﬁrst run the named entity recognition tag-
ger from Peters et al. (2017) and the dependency
parser from Dozat and Manning (2017) over each
example and ﬁlter for those with a geopolitical en-
tity in the question. We then delete the entity based
on its syntactic role. If the entity’s syntactic role is
either nn or amod, we delete the entire entity and
all of its descendants. If the the entity’s role ispobj,
the entity’s parent preposition and all its descen-
dants. Finally, if the entity’s role is root or nsubj,
we replace the entity with the pronoun we, delet-
ing all determiners and conjugating any auxiliary
verbs accordingly. We ignore instances where the
dependency is not in one of these categories, there
are multiple GPE entities, the stripped questions
is has 3 tokens or less, or there is disagreement
between our parser and tagger. We use the imple-
mentations of Peters et al. (2017) and Dozat and
Manning (2017) from AllenNLP (Gardner et al.,
2017).
Crowdsourcing Details We pay workers 0.15
USD per identiﬁcation HIT and 0.40 USD per
{Context / Answer} collection and validation HIT.
During {Context / Answer} collection, if an anno-
tator is unable to ﬁnd the previous answer or either
transition date after visiting 3 articles, they may
leave out that information. In validation stage, in
Source Train Dev Test Total
NQ-Table 2911 500 839 2647
NQ-Passage 408 500 500 1500
WebQuestions 367 361 500 861
TyDi-QA (en) 412 413 N/A 1000
MS-MARCO 340 314 348 1500
Total 4438 2572 1962 8972
Table 10: Number of identiﬁcation examples by split
and source dataset.
Source Temporally Dependent
No Maybe Yes
NQ-Passage 73.3 15.6 11.1
NQ-Table 54.6 3.7 41.6
WebQuestions 59.9 10.4 29.9
TyDi-QA (en) 62.3 14.1 23.5
MS-Marco 60.0 26.4 13.6
Table 11: Temporal volatility distribution of raw an-
notation for various datasets (numbers on the training
split).
addition to allowing annotators to search over En-
glish Wikipedia, we also provide a list of articles
that were used by workers in the prior stage. In
open retrieval setting, the same question may have
multiple interpretations, and therefore we ask anno-
tators to mark answers as correct if they consistent
with one plausible interpretation. Figure 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
shows our annotation interface.
Generating TEMP (q, c, a) examples We sam-
ple values of cv to match the granularity of the
annotated dates (year-month-day or year) from our
collected answer timelines. For each static ques-
tion, we uniformly sample a single value of cv be-
tween the original dataset’s creation (2018) and the
present date (2021-03-01), matching the granularity
Source Y/N Data Y/N/M Data
TEMP _ABS / TEMP _REL 0.64 0.62
- NQ-Passage 0.54 0.61
- NQ-Table 0.69 0.68
- WebQuestions 0.46 0.49
- TyDi-QA (en) 0.64 0.58
- MS-Marco 0.43 0.45
GEO 0.56 0.56
Table 12: Interannotator Agreement of Identiﬁcation
examples. We compute Fleiss’s kappa all examples
where the majority of labels (2 out of 3) are either “Yes”
or “No” (ﬁrst column) and over all examples (second
column) “Yes”, “No”, or “Maybe/Unsure”.

[[page 14]]
Query
Mod.
Fine-
tuned
TEMP GEO
Static Samp. Start Total Any Comm. Rare Total Any
Retrieval
(DPR)
77.2 70.2 67.9 70.4 80.1 53.8 45.8 50.0 85.0
✓ 71.2 72.9 72.2 72.4 79.8 76.7 79.6 78.1 87.9
✓ ✓ 76.5 74.7 72.9 74.3 81.6 76.7 79.6 78.1 87.9
Table 13: Retrieval performance on situated question answering, measured by answer recall within the top 50
retrieved documents. We also report performance for partitions of the test set, was well as recall measured against
the union of all answers from all annotated contexts (Any).
Fine- Knowledge Stable Updated
tuned Source Date 267 209
Retrieval
(DPR)
Wiki. Dec 2018 74.9 35.4
Wiki. Feb 2021 78.3 60.3
✓ Wiki. Feb 2021 79.4 66.0
Table 14: Retriever results on the default open-retrieval
QA setting where all questions are assumed to be
about the present timestamp (Feb 2021), given as an-
swer recall at top 50 on our test set. We split exam-
ples based on whether the current answer started to be
true after the large scale training dataset was collected,
Updated, or whether questions where answers didn’t
change since the data collection, Stable. Retrieval is
run over English Wikipedia dumps from 2018-12-20
and 2021-02-20.
distribution we ﬁnd in our training set annotations.
Inter Annotator Agreement Inter annotator
agreement during identiﬁcation phase can be found
in Table 12. At the validation phase, 70%
of temporal question-context-answer pairs were
annotated as correct and 85% of geographical
question-context-answer pairs were annotated as
correct, similar to validation phase (76%) in Am-
bigQA (Min et al., 2020).
Agreement with Natural Questions The an-
swer span exact match between our collected an-
swers and the original answers from NQ where
the annotated start and end transition dates overlap
with NQ’s creation (2018) was around 40%, simi-
lar to the average agreement rate on NQ-Open test
data is 49.2% in the original study (Kwiatkowski
et al., 2019). Our manual analysis on randomly
sampled 50 errors and ﬁnd that only 12% of the er-
rors can be attributed to annotation errors. 70% of
other errors are due to ambiguities in the question
resulting in multiple possible answers (e.g. “Three
movies made from Agatha Christie’s novels”), or
the same answer being given in different forms (e.g.
“Chamberlain, Wilt” vs. “Wilt Chamberlain”). The
remaining errors are the result of inconsistencies in
NQ annotations (18%).
B Data Analysis
Naturally occurring query modiﬁcations In
open retrieval QA datasets, questions often ask
about the answer in some speciﬁc temporal or ge-
ographical context. For instance, when people
want to ask about the previous answer to a ques-
tions, people often add words like "previously"
or "last" in their question to specify it. We ﬁnd
that such questions comprise about 4.1% of NQ-
Open (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019; Lee et al., 2019).
We also ﬁnd that 5.1% of questions specify a
speciﬁc point in time, as determined by whether
there is a year expression in the question. Finally,
we estimate the number of questions that spec-
ify a geographical context by counting number of
stripped questions that were speciﬁed as geograph-
ically dependent. These questions, which have a
phrase specifying the geographical context, com-
prise about 4.4% of NQ-Open. Our modiﬁcations
closely resemble these naturally occurring ques-
tions, but can sometimes produce ungrammatical
sentences, usually due verb tense agreement.
C Retriever Analysis
Are errors in retrieval based systems due to
poor retrieval? In Table 13, we report the re-
trieval performance from the settings in Section 5.
We measure comparing against the results from
Table 5 and Table 6, we see similar trends in end-
to-end performance reﬂected in our retriever per-
formance.
We also explore whether the retriever model is
able to adapt to updated corpora, reporting retrieval
performance in Table 14. Here, we see that while
retriever performance also suffers on queries with
updated answers, suggesting that retriever systems
are perhaps implicitly learning to situate questions
within the time period of their large-scale training
datasets.

[[page 15]]
D Implementation Details
Context Dependent Question Iden-
tiﬁcation Baselines We use the
pytorch-transformers (Wolf et al.,
2020) library to implement our classiﬁcation
models. The training batch size is set to 8 and
64 for BERT-base and BERT-large, respectively.
We train for 10 epochs using a learning rage of
5e-5 and 500 warmup steps and select the best
preforming model measured on dev after each
epoch.
Context Dependent Question Answering Base-
lines We ﬁnetune our closed book baselines for
10 epochs with a batch size of 256, using the
AdamW optimizer with a learning rate of 1e-5. We
select the best performing model evaluated after
each training epoch. We keep all other hyperparam-
eters the same from the original implementation.
For our retrieval based baselines, we ﬁnetune
both the retriever and reader components. The re-
triever models are trained using in-batch negatives
plus one hard-negative passage per question. We
use hard-negative and gold passages from the query
modiﬁed model’s predictions before ﬁnetuning. We
train the retriever model for 8 epochs, using a learn-
ing rate of 1e-5, 100 warmup steps, and a batch
size of 16. We then ﬁnetune our reader models for
16 epochs and a batch size of 16. We select the best
model evaluated after each training epoch for both
reader and retriever models, and select the best top-
k retrieval results to use for in k ∈ { 10, 20, 50}
evaluated on the development set. All other hy-
perparameters from the DPR reader and retriever
models are kept the same from the original work.

[[page 16]]
Figure 4: Interface for identifying temporally and geographically dependent questions.
Figure 5: Interface for collecting geographical {Context / Answer} pairs. Annotators are also asked to verify the
original location and answer.
Figure 6: Interface for searching for articles during temporal {Context / Answer} collection. The search interface
is shared between temporal and geographical {Context / Answer} collection and veriﬁcation stages.

[[page 17]]
Figure 7: Interface for viewing Wikipedia articles during the {Context / Answer} collection and veriﬁcation stages.
Workers select articles from the search results depicted above that they want to view.
Figure 8: Annotation interface for {Context / Answer} veriﬁcation stages. Workers may search for the answers
themselves, or view the articles used by workers in the prior stage.