[[page 1]]
Ontology-Guided Evidence Path Inference for Multi-hop
Knowledge Graph Question Answering
Yongxue Shan
National University of Defense
Technology
Changsha, China
shanyongxue001@nudt.edu.cn
Meihan Wu
Pengcheng Laboratory
Shenzhen, China
wumh@pcl.ac.cn
Cundi Fang
National University of Defense
Technology
Changsha, China
fangcundi@nudt.edu.cn
Jie Peng
National University of Defense
Technology
Changsha, China
pengjie@nudt.edu.cn
Xiaodong Wang
National University of Defense
Technology
Changsha, China
xdwang@nudt.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Knowledge graph question answering (KGQA) aims to answer
natural-language questions by reasoning over structured facts. Ex-
isting multi-hop KGQA methods mainly rely on topic-centered ex-
pansion, which faces two key challenges: the search space rapidly
grows with noisy mixed-type paths, and retrieved paths may fail to
satisfy the semantic constraints of complex questions. To address
these challenges, we propose OPI, an ontology-guided evidence
path inference framework for multi-hop KGQA. OPI introduces a
relation-centric ontology graph to capture the head-tail type con-
straints of relations, providing a compact interface for answer-side
constraints. Based on this ontology graph, OPI first introduces a
bidirectional retrieval mechanism by mapping the predicted answer
type to compatible final-hop relations and combining topic-side
prefix expansion with answer-side final-hop matching, thereby sup-
pressing noisy mixed-type expansion. OPI further adopts an itera-
tive refinement strategy to reassess retrieved paths and candidate
answers under the question context, filtering type-compatible but
question-irrelevant evidence for more reliable answer prediction.
Experiments on WebQSP, CWQ, and MetaQA show that OPI sub-
stantially reduces the search space, improves Hit@1/F1 by 4.6/5.0
points on WebQSP and 8.9/3.3 points on CWQ over the strongest
prior results, and achieves near-saturated Hit@1 on MetaQA with
the retrieval module alone.
PVLDB Reference Format:
Yongxue Shan, Meihan Wu, Cundi Fang, Jie Peng, and Xiaodong Wang.
Ontology-Guided Evidence Path Inference for Multi-hop Knowledge Graph
Question Answering. PVLDB, 14(1): XXX-XXX, 2020.
doi:XX.XX/XXX.XX
PVLDB Artifact Availability:
The source code, data, and/or other artifacts have been made available at
https://github.com/shanyongxue/OPI_KGQA.
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons BY-NC-ND 4.0 International
License. Visit https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ to view a copy of
this license. For any use beyond those covered by this license, obtain permission by
emailing info@vldb.org. Copyright is held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights
licensed to the VLDB Endowment.
Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, Vol. 14, No. 1 ISSN 2150-8097.
doi:XX.XX/XXX.XX
1 INTRODUCTION
Knowledge graph question answering (KGQA) aims to answer
natural-language questions by reasoning over entities and rela-
tions in a knowledge graph, and has been applied in domains such
as healthcare [ 8], agriculture [ 46], and multimedia [ 20]. Driven
by the rapid advances of large language models (LLMs), recent
studies increasingly integrate LLMs with KGs to support question
understanding, reasoning planning, and graph-grounded answer
generation [33]. These methods explore diverse strategies, includ-
ing iterative graph exploration, relation-path planning, and graph-
constrained decoding, and have advanced multi-hop reasoning over
KGs [22, 24–26, 40, 42, 45]. Nevertheless, complex multi-hop KGQA
remains challenging over large-scale KGs, where increasing scale,
heterogeneity, and structural complexity introduce large search
spaces and ambiguous reasoning evidence [7, 10, 34].
A common paradigm for multi-hop KGQA is to retrieve evidence
paths or subgraphs rooted at the topic entity and use them to derive
answers. To improve retrieval efficiency, many methods control
the expansion space through local subgraph construction, iterative
graph exploration, and path pruning [40, 42, 45]. To improve reason-
ing quality, recent methods further introduce semantic signals such
as relation-path planning, graph-structured prompting, and LLM-
based evidence reasoning [22, 24–26]. Despite these advances, most
retrieval procedures are still primarily driven by topic-centered
expansion: they start from the topic entity and progressively ex-
plore neighboring entities and relations. Consequently, retrieval
often produces numerous structurally reachable paths that are in-
consistent with the expected answer type, while also introducing
spurious candidate paths that fail to satisfy the complex semantic
constraints of the question.
This topic-centered retrieval paradigm faces two challenges in
multi-hop KGQA, as illustrated in Figure 1. The first ispath ex-
plosion: unconstrained forward expansion from the topic entity
produces a massive expansion of candidate paths ending in hetero-
geneous types, the vast majority of which are completely irrelevant
to the expected answer type. As shown in the upper part of Fig-
ure 1, paths starting from the same topic entity may branch into
countries, persons, awards, clubs, languages, and other mixed-type
arXiv:2606.28076v1  [cs.AI]  26 Jun 2026

[[page 2]]
Topic-centered expansion quickly produces many mixed-type candidate paths.
Q: Which official language is spoken in the country where Lionel Messi was born?
A: Spanish
Challenge 1: Path Explosion Expected answer type:
• Language
Challenge 2: Semantic Misalignment
Answer-type-compatible paths still violate the semantic constraints implied by the question.
Constraints:
• country of birth + official language
Lionel 
Messi
…Paris Saint-
Germain F.C.
[Club]
Paris Saint-
Germain F.C.
[Club]
…
Argentina
Spanish
[Language]
Spanish
[Language]
Argentina
Spanish
[Language]
Pablo 
Javkin
[Person]
Pablo 
Javkin
[Person]
Milei
[Person]
Milei
[Person]
Pablo 
Javkin
[Person]
Milei
[Person]
Santa Fe 
Province
Argentina
[Country]
Argentina
[Country]
Santa Fe 
Province
Argentina
[Country]
Brazil
Portuguese
[Language]
Portuguese
[Language]
Brazil
Portuguese
[Language]
Mogi das 
Cruzes
Rosario NeymarArgentina national 
football team …FIFA World Cup 
Golden Ball
[Award]
FIFA World Cup 
Golden Ball
[Award]
France
[Country]
France
[Country]
…Paris Saint-
Germain F.C.
[Club]
…
Argentina
Spanish
[Language]
Pablo 
Javkin
[Person]
Milei
[Person]
Santa Fe 
Province
Argentina
[Country]
Brazil
Portuguese
[Language]
Mogi das 
Cruzes
Rosario NeymarArgentina national 
football team …FIFA World Cup 
Golden Ball
[Award]
France
[Country]
Lionel 
Messi
…Paris Saint-
Germain F.C.
[Club]
…
Argentina
Spanish
[Language]
Pablo 
Javkin
[Person]
Milei
[Person]
Santa Fe 
Province
Argentina
[Country]
Brazil
Portuguese
[Language]
Mogi das 
Cruzes
Rosario NeymarArgentina national 
football team …FIFA World Cup 
Golden Ball
[Award]
France
[Country]
Type-compatible but semantically misaligned paths:
Correct evidence path:
hL born_in located_in official_languageArgentina Sionel M o panisessi R sario⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ ⎯ →
eL teammate_of nationality official_languageNeymar Brazil Po ortuguei nel Mes ssi ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ ⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ ⎯ →
…
play_for loc hLated_iionel Messi n official_languageArge Sntina national football team Argen stina pani⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ ⎯ →
Figure 1: Illustration of two main challenges in multi-hop
KGQA. The upper part shows that topic-centered expansion
produces many mixed-type candidate paths, while the lower
part shows that even answer-type-compatible paths may still
violate the semantic constraints implied by the question.
endpoints. The second issemantic misalignment: even when can-
didate paths reach answer-type-compatible entities, they may still
violate the implicit constraints of the question and thus deviate
from the intended reasoning semantics. As shown in the lower part
of Figure 1, several paths can lead to plausible language entities,
but only the path that captures both the birth-country constraint
and the official-language constraint provides the correct reasoning
evidence. Therefore, an effective multi-hop KGQA framework re-
quires the ability to both mitigate the explosion of candidate paths
and identify reasoning chains that satisfy the complex semantic
constraints of the question.
To address these challenges, we propose OPI, anOntology-guided
evidencePathInference framework for multi-hop KGQA. Rather
than relying on unconstrained topic-centered expansion that pro-
duces noisy, mixed-type paths, OPI introduces a relation-centric
ontology graph as the structural basis for evidence path inference.
This graph abstracts the knowledge graph into a type-level repre-
sentation that captures how relations connect head and tail entity
types, providing a compact interface for answer-side constraints.
Driven by this compact interface, OPI replaces unconstrained topic-
centered retrieval with a two-stage inference paradigm that ad-
dresses the two challenges. It first leverages a bidirectional retrieval
mechanism to impose answer-side constraints and prune the ex-
plosive search space early. It then applies an iterative refinement
strategy to filter spurious evidence and improve semantic alignment
with the question.
Specifically, OPI leveragesa bidirectional retrieval mechanism
to obtain a set of answer-type-compatible evidence paths. Given
a question, OPI predicts the implied answer type and maps it to
a small set of answer-type-compatible final-hop relations. It then
combines topic-side prefix expansion with answer-side final-hop
matching, so that retrieval is no longer driven by unconstrained
topic-centered expansion alone. This bidirectional retrieval mecha-
nism effectively suppresses mixed-type path growth and mitigates
structural path explosion. After retrieval, OPI appliesan iterative
answer refinement strategyto reassess the retrieved paths and can-
didate answers under the question context. The generator produces
an answer hypothesis from the current path and answer contexts,
while the refiner evaluates the hypothesis together with the re-
trieved evidence and returns structured feedback. This feedback
updates the focused path context and candidate answer context,
enabling OPI to filter type-compatible but question-irrelevant evi-
dence and generate more reliable final answers.
Our main contributions are summarized as follows:
• We introduce a relation-centric ontology graph, which cap-
tures how relations connect head and tail entity types and
provides the structural basis for answer-side constrained
path retrieval.
• We propose an ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval mech-
anism, which combines topic-side prefix expansion with
answer-side final-hop matching to reduce noisy mixed-type
expansion and alleviate path explosion.
• We design an iterative answer refinement strategy, which
jointly reassesses retrieved paths and candidate answers
under the question context to filter type-compatible but
question-irrelevant evidence.
• We conduct extensive experiments on WebQSP, CWQ, and
MetaQA, demonstrating the effectiveness of OPI and its key
components across different KGQA benchmarks.
2 PRELIMINARIES
In this section, we formalize the KGQA task considered in this paper
by defining the knowledge graph, its type-level abstraction, and
the answer prediction objective.
2.1 Knowledge Graph and Ontology Graph
Knowledge graph.A knowledge graph is denoted byG=(E,R,T) ,
where:
• Eis the set of entities;
• Ris the set of relations;
• T⊆E×R×Eis the set of factual triples.
Each factual triple(𝑒ℎ,𝑟,𝑒 𝑡)∈T indicates that the head entity𝑒ℎ
is connected to the tail entity𝑒𝑡 by relation𝑟.
Ontology graph.The ontology graph provides a type-level
abstraction of the knowledge graph through relation signatures. It
is denoted byO=(C,R,S), where:
• Cis the set of semantic types associated with entities;
• Ris the relation set shared with the knowledge graph;
• S⊆C×R×Cis the set of type-level relation signatures.
2

[[page 3]]
Ontology Graph
Knowledge Graph
Abstraction
Neymar
Lionel Messi
FIFA World Cup 
Golden Ball
Rosario
Argentina national 
football team Spanish
Argentina
official_language
located_in
born_in
award_received
teammate_of
Brazilnationality Santa Fe 
Province
located_in
Portugueseofficial_
languageNeymar
Lionel Messi
FIFA World Cup 
Golden Ball
Rosario
Argentina national 
football team Spanish
Argentina
official_language
located_in
born_in
award_received
teammate_of
Brazilnationality Santa Fe 
Province
located_in
Portugueseofficial_
language
Football 
Player
Award
Location
Football Team Language
Country
official_language
located_in
nationality
born_in
award_received
located_inteammate_of
Football 
Player
Award
Location
Football Team Language
Country
official_language
located_in
nationality
born_in
award_received
located_inteammate_of
Figure 2: An example of a knowledge graph and its ontology
graph. The ontology graph abstracts entity-level triples into
type-level relation signatures.
Each relation signature(𝑐ℎ,𝑟,𝑐 𝑡)∈S specifies that relation𝑟 can
connect head entities of type 𝑐ℎ to tail entities of type 𝑐𝑡 at the
ontology level. While the knowledge graph stores concrete entity-
level facts, the ontology graph captures type-level compatibility
through these relation signatures. Figure 2 illustrates how entity-
level triples in the knowledge graph are abstracted into type-level
relation signatures in the ontology graph.
2.2 Knowledge Graph Question Answering
Given a natural language question𝑞, we assume that a topic entity
𝑒𝑞∈E mentioned in the question is identified following standard
KGQA settings [16, 24]. An evidence path rooted at𝑒𝑞 is a sequence
of connected factual triples:
𝑝=(𝑒 0
𝑟1
−→𝑒1
𝑟2
−→···
𝑟𝑙
− →𝑒𝑙),(1)
where𝑒0 =𝑒𝑞 and(𝑒𝑖−1,𝑟𝑖,𝑒𝑖)∈T for each1 ≤𝑖≤𝑙 . The terminal
entity𝑒𝑙 of an evidence path is regarded as a candidate answer
grounded in the knowledge graph.
For each question, the ground-truth answer set is denoted by
Y∗⊆E. The task is to learn a function
𝑓𝜃(𝑞,𝑒𝑞,G,O)→ ˆ𝑦,(2)
where ˆ𝑦∈E denotes the final predicted answer. We assume that
each correct answer 𝑦∈ Y∗ can be reached from the topic en-
tity through at least one bounded-length evidence path inG. The
objective is therefore to produce an answer prediction ˆ𝑦 that is
graph-reachable from the topic entity and semantically consistent
with the constraints expressed by the question.
3 METHOD
3.1 Overall Architecture
OPI consists of three tightly connected modules: ontology graph
construction, ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval, and itera-
tive answer refinement. It first abstracts the original knowledge
graph into a relation-centric ontology graph, where each relation
is represented by a type-level relation signature. Based on this on-
tology graph, OPI predicts the answer type implied by the question
and maps it to a set of answer-type-compatible final-hop relations,
enabling bidirectional retrieval that combines topic-side prefix ex-
pansion with answer-side final-hop matching. OPI then refines
the retrieved evidence and candidate answers through a generator-
refiner loop, where structured feedback iteratively updates both
the path context and the answer context. Figure 3 summarizes the
main inference pipeline of OPI.
3.2 Ontology Graph Construction
In large-scale knowledge graphs, the entity-level graph is often
dense and highly heterogeneous. As the hop count increases, un-
constrained topic-centered expansion can easily produce a large
number of noisy evidence paths, causing rapid search-space growth.
This motivates us to construct a compact type-level abstraction of
the knowledge graph, so that repetitive entity-level facts can be
summarized into more stable relation-type patterns.
Specifically, we abstract the factual knowledge graph G into
a relation-centric ontology graph O. In this graph, entity-level
facts are summarized by type-level relation signatures of the form
(𝑐ℎ,𝑟,𝑐 𝑡), where 𝑐ℎ and𝑐𝑡 denote the head and tail entity types
associated with relation 𝑟, respectively. Rather than preserving
all concrete entity-level triples, the ontology graph captures how
relations connect semantic types at the schema level. Since different
knowledge bases expose type information in different forms, we
adopt two construction strategies: schema-based extraction for
knowledge bases with explicit schema predicates, and data-driven
induction for knowledge bases without explicit schema predicates.
3.2.1 For Freebase-style Knowledge Bases.When explicit schema
predicates are available, relation signatures can be extracted directly
from the schema. Specifically, we construct the ontology graph from
the Freebase RDF dump [28] under the canonical namespace http:
//rdf.freebase.com/ns/. For each relation, we pair type.property.
schema with type.property.expected_type to obtain the head
and tail types in its relation signature. The former specifies the
domain type of the relation, while the latter specifies its expected
range type. In this way, each schema-defined relation can be trans-
formed into a type-level triple(𝑐 ℎ,𝑟,𝑐 𝑡).
To improve the reliability of the resulting ontology graph, we fil-
ter out non-semantic or administrative types, such ascommon.topic,
and retain only relations with complete head-tail signatures. For a
small number of missing or under-specified relations, we perform
conservative completion using only the training split to avoid infor-
mation leakage. Specifically, we aggregate the observed head and
tail entity sets of each such relation from the training data, infer
their dominant types, and accept the completion only when both
sides admit a consistent type assignment. This strategy leverages
the explicit schema structure of Freebase while improving coverage
3

[[page 4]]
Iterative Answer Refinement
Structured feedback
Stop if high-confidence or answer-stable
Final Answer:
Spanish
( 1) ( 1) ( 1) ( ), , , , t t t tq c P A F ya
− − − →
Generator produces the answer hypothesis
( 1) ( 1) ( 1) ( ), , , , t t t tq c P A F ya
− − − →
Generator produces the answer hypothesis
LLM
LLM
LLM
LLM
(t)
()
Answer hypothesis and 
selected focused paths 
 y
tP
(t)
()
Answer hypothesis and 
selected focused paths 
 y
tP
( ) ( ) ( ), , , t t taq c P y F→
(t)Refiner critiques on focusey d  paths
( ) ( ) ( ), , , t t taq c P y F→
(t)Refiner critiques on focusey d  paths
Ontology-Guided Bidirectional Retrieval
Instruction 
Finetuning
Question: Which  official language is spoken in 
the country where Lionel Messi was born?
hL born_in located_in official_languageArgentina Sionel M o panisessi R sario⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ →
eL teammate_of nationality official_languageNeymar Brazil Po ortuguei nel Mes ssi ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯→ ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ →
play_for loc hLated_iionel Messi n official_languageArge Sntina national football team Argen stina pani⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ → ⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯⎯ →
# Candidate Answers:
   Spanish, Portuguese
# Retrieved Evidence Paths:
# Candidate Answers:
   Spanish, Portuguese
# Retrieved Evidence Paths:
Bidirectional Retrieval: Prefix endpoint further filters the final hop
topic entity . . . final-hop relationspenultimate nodetopic entity . . . final-hop relationspenultimate node
LLM
LLM
Ontology GraphOntology Graph
Knowledge Graph
Knowledge Graph
()
Update path 
 context tP
()
Update path 
 context tP
()
Update answer
   context tA
()
Update answer
   context tA
aPredict answer entity type: c ={language}
Lionel Messi official_language
official_language
official_language
official_language
lastMap c  to candidate final-hop relations: o fficial_languageaca

=
Figure 3: Overall inference pipeline of OPI. The left part shows ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval, which retrieves tail-
type-compatible evidence paths. The right part shows iterative answer refinement, where a generator–refiner loop refines
these paths and candidate answers to produce the final answer.
for rare or incomplete relations. The same construction principle
naturally extends to other KGs with explicit schema predicates,
such as DBpedia, where rdfs:domain and rdfs:range provide
analogous type constraints.
3.2.2 For Wiki-Movie-style Knowledge Bases.When explicit schema
predicates are unavailable, relation signatures are induced directly
from data. In Wiki-Movie-style KGs, the original graph does not
provide schema predicates that explicitly define the domain and
range types of each relation. Therefore, we first infer entity types
from the training QA pairs and their associated type-path anno-
tations. Each entity is assigned a single main type according to
its most frequent observation, which reduces type sparsity and
avoids unstable relation signatures caused by overly fine-grained
or inconsistent type assignments.
After obtaining entity-level type assignments, we aggregate the
observed head-tail type pairs for each relation. For a relation𝑟, all
training triples containing𝑟 are mapped from entity-level triples
(𝑒ℎ,𝑟,𝑒 𝑡) to type-level observations(𝑐ℎ,𝑟,𝑐 𝑡). We then retain the
dominant head-tail type pair as the relation signature of 𝑟. This
data-driven strategy allows ontology graph construction even when
no explicit schema is available. More generally, for KGs such as
Wikidata, relation signatures can also be induced by mapping enti-
ties to type sets via P31 (instance of) and optionally generalizing
them with P279 (subclass of), followed by relation-wise aggregation
of head and tail type statistics.
In both settings, the final ontology graph takes the same form:
each relation is associated with a relation signature(𝑐ℎ,𝑟,𝑐 𝑡). This
unified relation-signature interface makes OPI applicable across
heterogeneous knowledge graphs. More importantly, it provides
the structural link from ontology construction to retrieval: in the
next stage, predicted answer types are mapped to answer-type-
compatible final-hop relations through exactly this interface.
3.3 Ontology-Guided Bidirectional Retrieval
Building on the relation-signature interface defined above, OPI
introduces an ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval mechanism
to alleviate path explosion. Here,bidirectionaldoes not refer to
conventional two-sided entity-level BFS from the topic entity and
concrete answer entities. Instead, it means that retrieval is jointly
constrained by topic-side prefix expansion and answer-side type
constraints. Specifically, OPI first predicts the answer type implied
by the question, maps it to answer-type-compatible final-hop re-
lations through the ontology graph, and then combines topic-side
prefix expansion with answer-side final-hop matching to retrieve
evidence paths and candidate answers.
3.3.1 Answer-Type Prediction.The relation-signature interface makes
answer-type prediction a natural target for retrieval guidance. Com-
pared with direct answer-entity prediction, answer-type prediction
is substantially more compact and stable: questions with different
surface forms and different gold answers often still share the same
answer-side semantic category, such asperson,film, orlocation. Pre-
dicting the answer type before graph retrieval therefore provides a
coarse but reliable target that can later be translated into structural
constraints on the final hop.
To construct supervision, given a question𝑞 with topic entity𝑒𝑞
and gold answer𝑒𝑎, we extract the shortest factual path𝑤𝑧(𝑒𝑞,𝑒𝑎)=
(𝑒𝑞
𝑟1
−→···
𝑟𝑙
− →𝑒𝑎) with relation sequence𝑧=(𝑟 1,...,𝑟 𝑙) inG. We
use this path only as a minimal supervision signal. In particular,
4

[[page 5]]
we take its last-hop relation 𝑟𝑙 and query the ontology graph O
for relation signatures of the form(𝑐ℎ,𝑟𝑙,𝑐𝑎), where𝑐ℎ is a head
type and𝑐𝑎 is a tail type. The tail type in such a signature is then
regarded as a valid answer entity type for the question. This yields
the target set
C𝑎 ={𝑐𝑎 :∃𝑐 ℎ,(𝑐 ℎ,𝑟𝑙,𝑐𝑎)∈S },(3)
If multiple ontology-consistent answer entity types are induced,
we treat them as equally valid and define the supervision target as
𝑄(𝑐𝑎|𝑞,𝑒 𝑞,𝑒𝑎,G,O)=
 

1
|C𝑎|, 𝑐 𝑎∈C𝑎,
0,otherwise.
(4)
Following Luo et al. [24], we use this simple target distribution to
supervise answer-type prediction.
We then fine-tune a large language model to generate the answer
entity type conditioned on the question𝑞. This defines a conditional
prior
log𝑃𝜙(𝑐𝑎|𝑞)=
|𝑐𝑎|∑︁
𝑖=1
log𝑃𝜙(𝑠𝑖|𝑠 <𝑖,𝑞).(5)
where𝜙 denotes the model parameters,𝑠𝑖 is the𝑖-th generated token,
and𝑠<𝑖 denotes the token prefix before position 𝑖. The resulting
prediction is subsequently mapped to answer-type-compatible final-
hop relations for retrieval.
3.3.2 Answer-Type-Guided Bidirectional Retrieval.Given a predicted
answer type𝑐𝑎, OPI uses the ontology graph to identify which re-
lations can end at entities of this type. Specifically, we search the
relation-signature setS for all signatures whose tail type is𝑐𝑎. For
each matched signature(𝑐ℎ,𝑟,𝑐 𝑎), the relation𝑟 is regarded as a
candidate final-hop relation, because it can connect some head type
𝑐ℎ to the predicted answer type𝑐𝑎 at the ontology level. Formally,
we define the answer-type-compatible final-hop relation set as
Rlast
𝑐𝑎 ={𝑟:∃𝑐 ℎ,(𝑐 ℎ,𝑟,𝑐 𝑎)∈S },(6)
Through this relation-signature interface, the predicted answer type
is converted into a set of structurally plausible final-hop relations
for subsequent retrieval.
Retrieval then proceeds bidirectionally. On the forward side, we
start from the topic entity and traverse the factual graph along the
original edge directions, expanding candidate path prefixes hop by
hop under bounded depth and path budgets. On the answer side,
rather than starting from concrete answer entities, OPI represents
the answer constraint by a set of ontology-compatible final-hop
relationsRlast
𝑐𝑎 induced by the predicted answer type. Importantly,
this set is defined at the ontology level and may still contain multi-
ple admissible relations for the target tail type. However, under a
specific question, the feasible last hop is further constrained by the
endpoint of the forward prefix. Concretely, for each prefix ending
at a penultimate node𝑣, only those relations inRlast
𝑐𝑎 for which the
type of𝑣 matches the required head-side signature remain valid.
Therefore, many ontology-legitimate final hops are eliminated im-
mediately once the forward context is fixed, and the candidate set
at the last step is typically reduced to only a few relations, and in
many cases to a unique one.
The two sides thus meet at the penultimate node. For each for-
ward prefix ending at𝑣, we check whether𝑣 can serve as a valid
head entity for some𝑟∈R last
𝑐𝑎 . If so, we append the matched final
hop and obtain a complete evidence path. Rather than expanding
all outgoing relations at the final step, the search explicitly reserves
the last hop for ontology-guided completion. This design not only
enforces answer-type consistency, but also avoids introducing a
large number of spurious branches that would otherwise arise from
unconstrained topic-centered expansion.
This mechanism constrains the search space and reduces search
complexity. Let𝑏 denote the average branching factor of the fac-
tual knowledge graph. Without answer-side constraints, an uncon-
strained𝑥-hop forward expansion from the topic entity explores
|P full
𝑥 (𝑒𝑞)|=𝑂(𝑏 𝑥).(7)
With answer-type-guided final-hop constraints, retrieval is re-
formulated as searching for valid(𝑥− 1)-hop prefixes followed by
a constrained one-hop completion. LetRlast
𝑐𝑎 denote the set of final-
hop relations compatible with the predicted answer type𝑐𝑎, and
let𝛽(𝑐𝑎) denote the effective branching factor after applying these
final-hop constraints at prefix endpoints. Since the constrained
completion is selected from the original outgoing branches, we
have𝛽(𝑐𝑎)≤𝑏 . The resulting search space is therefore bounded by
|P bi
𝑥(𝑒𝑞,𝑐𝑎)|=𝑂  𝑏𝑥−1·𝛽(𝑐 𝑎).(8)
This formulation shows that OPI reduces the last-hop expansion
from unconstrained entity-level branching to answer-type-constrained
completion. The reduction depends on the selectivity of the answer-
side constraints, rather than assuming that all ontology-compatible
relation sets are uniformly small.
3.3.3 Fallback Retrieval and Evidence Reranking.If no answer type
is predicted, or if the predicted answer type cannot be mapped to
any answer-type-compatible final-hop relation through the relation-
signature interface, we do not perform answer-side constrained
matching. Instead, we revert to topic-centered forward retrieval
from the topic entity and enumerate candidate paths up to a bounded
number of hops. This fallback preserves a graph-grounded evidence
source even when answer-type guidance is unavailable.
After candidate paths are obtained, we retain the top-𝑘 evidence
paths under a fixed path budget. In the current implementation,
the candidate paths and the question are encoded by a pretrained
language model (e.g., SentenceBERT [35]), and their semantic rel-
evance is measured in the embedding space. The top-𝑘 paths are
then retained and converted into readable path strings. Candidate
answers are finally extracted from the tail entities of the retained
paths, ensuring that the final answer space remains grounded in
explicit graph evidence.
3.4 Iterative Answer Refinement
After ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval, OPI obtains a bounded
set of candidate evidence paths and candidate answers extracted
from their tail entities. Although this retrieval stage substantially
reduces the search space, the remaining paths may still contain
competing branches, partially relevant evidence, or semantically
incomplete support for the final answer. OPI therefore does not di-
rectly return the top-ranked candidate. Instead, it performs iterative
answer refinement through a generator-refiner loop.
5

[[page 6]]
3.4.1 Generator-Refiner Loop.At iteration 𝑡, the generator pro-
duces an answer hypothesis from the question𝑞 and the current
retrieval context. In the current implementation, this context in-
cludes the predicted answer-type constraints𝑐𝑎, the reasoning-path
context𝑃(𝑡−1) , the answer context𝐴(𝑡−1) , and the refinement feed-
back from the previous round 𝐹(𝑡−1) . Thus, the first iteration is
already grounded in retrieved evidence, while later iterations are
further constrained by revision signals.
Formally, the generation step at iteration𝑡is defined as
𝑦(𝑡) =𝐺𝜃(𝑞,𝑐𝑎,𝑃(𝑡−1),𝐴(𝑡−1),𝐹(𝑡−1)),(9)
where𝑦(𝑡) is the current answer hypothesis. OPI further introduces
a refiner that takes the current answer hypothesis together with
a refinement-specific evidence subset and converts it into explicit
revision actions:
𝐹(𝑡) =𝑅𝜓(𝑞,𝑐𝑎, ¯𝑃(𝑡),𝑦(𝑡)),(10)
where ¯𝑃(𝑡) is the refinement-specific path subset selected from
the initial reranked path pool according to the current answer hy-
pothesis. The refiner output includes a confidence score, an issue
tag, retained answers, forbidden answers, prioritized paths, sup-
plementary paths, dropped paths, and a short feedback summary.
The generator proposes answer hypotheses, whereas the refiner
converts the current answer state into structured revision actions.
3.4.2 Refiner-Guided Context Update.Starting from the second
iteration, OPI no longer directly reuses the full retrieved path set
in the next generator call. Instead, it reconstructs the next-round
path context from the initial reranked path pool and the previous
refinement result. Paths aligned with retained answers are preferred.
If no retained answers are available, the system falls back to paths
aligned with the previous generated answers. When the refiner
indicates conflict or answer-set noise, OPI supplements the focused
paths with a small number of neutral paths. Prioritized paths are
promoted, supplementary paths are appended, and dropped paths
are removed.
Formally, the next-round context is updated as
𝑃(𝑡) =Update𝑃
 𝑃(0),𝑦(𝑡),𝐹(𝑡) ,(11)
𝐴(𝑡) =Update𝐴
 𝑦(𝑡),𝐹(𝑡) .(12)
where𝑃(0) denotes the initial reranked path pool. In the current im-
plementation,𝐴(𝑡) corresponds to the retained answers exposed to
the next generator round, while forbidden answers are injected sep-
arately through refinement feedback and explicit type-level answer
constraints. Thus, the next-round path context is reconstructed
from the initial path pool under refinement guidance, whereas the
next-round answer context is formed by the supported answers
retained by the refiner. If the stopping criterion is met, this context
update is skipped.
3.4.3 Iterative Revision and Stopping.OPI adopts an adaptive stop-
ping strategy based on two signals: refiner confidence and answer
stability. The refiner outputs a discrete confidence level together
with structured revision actions. The refinement loop terminates
when the refiner assigns the highest confidence level, indicating
that the current answer is sufficiently supported by the retrieved
evidence. We use this highest confidence level as a conservative
Algorithm 1OPI Inference Procedure
Input:Question 𝑞, topic entity𝑒𝑞, knowledge graphG, ontology graph
O, path budget𝑘, maximum refinement rounds𝑇
Output:Final answer ˆ𝑦
1:Step 1: Ontology-Guided Bidirectional Retrieval
2:Predict answer type:𝑐 𝑎←PredictType(𝑞)
3:Map𝑐 𝑎 to valid final-hop relations:R last
𝑐𝑎 ←MapToLastHop(𝑐 𝑎,O)
4:ifR last
𝑐𝑎 ≠∅then
5:Retrieve candidate evidence paths by bidirectional search:
6:𝑃 (0)←BidirectionalRetrieve(𝑒 𝑞,R last
𝑐𝑎 ,G)
7:else
8:Retrieve candidate evidence paths by fallback search:
9:𝑃 (0)←FallbackRetrieve(𝑒 𝑞,G)
10:end if
11:Rerank and retain the top-𝑘paths:
12:𝑃 (0)←RerankTopK(𝑞,𝑃 (0),𝑘)
13:Extract initial answer candidates:
14:𝐴 (0)←ExtractAnswers(𝑃 (0))
15:Step 2: Iterative Answer Refinement
16:Initialize refinement feedback:𝐹 (0)←∅
17:for𝑡=1to𝑇do
18:Generate the current answer hypothesis:
19:𝑦 (𝑡) ←Generate(𝑞,𝑐 𝑎,𝑃(𝑡−1),𝐴(𝑡−1),𝐹(𝑡−1))
20:Select the refinement-specific path subset:
21: ¯𝑃(𝑡) ←SelectRefinePaths(𝑃 (0),𝑦(𝑡))
22:Refine the current answer and obtain revision actions:
23:𝐹 (𝑡) ←Refine(𝑞,𝑐 𝑎, ¯𝑃(𝑡),𝑦(𝑡))
24:Derive the refined answer for the current round:
25:𝑦 (𝑡) ←PostRefine(𝑦 (𝑡),𝐹(𝑡))
26:ifShouldStop(𝐹 (𝑡),𝑦(𝑡))then
27:break
28:end if
29:Update the next-round path context and answer context:
30:𝑃 (𝑡) ←UpdatePathContext(𝑃(0),𝑦(𝑡),𝐹(𝑡))
31:𝐴 (𝑡) ←UpdateAnswerContext(𝑦 (𝑡),𝐹(𝑡))
32:end for
33:return ˆ𝑦←𝑦 (𝑡)
stopping threshold to avoid premature termination when the evi-
dence remains ambiguous.
OPI also stops when the post-refinement answer remains un-
changed across consecutive iterations. This stability criterion cap-
tures cases where further refinement no longer changes the final
prediction. If either stopping condition is satisfied, OPI returns the
answer from the current refinement round. Otherwise, the updated
path context, answer context, answer-type constraints, and refine-
ment feedback are passed to the next generator round. If no early
stopping condition is triggered, OPI returns the answer from the
final refinement round.
Overall, OPI closes the loop between retrieved evidence and
final answer prediction. The generator proposes answer hypotheses
under graph-grounded retrieval context, while the refiner converts
the current answer state into explicit revision actions. The path and
answer contexts are then updated accordingly for the next round.
This adaptive process helps suppress noisy branches and improves
answer reliability beyond single-pass retrieval-and-readout.
6

[[page 7]]
4 EXPERIMENTS
We conduct extensive experiments to answer the following research
questions:RQ1: Does OPI outperform existing KGQA methods on
WebQSP and CWQ?RQ2: Is ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval
effective as an independent retrieval module?RQ3: How much does
each component of OPI contribute to the overall performance?RQ4:
Why do ontology-based constraints improve retrieval effectiveness?
RQ5: Is OPI robust across different LLM backbones?RQ6: Can OPI
reduce retrieval cost and evidence noise?
4.1 Experimental Settings
Datasets.We evaluate our method on three widely used KGQA
benchmarks: WebQuestionsSP (WebQSP) [47], ComplexWebQues-
tions (CWQ) [41], and MetaQA [51]. These benchmarks are built on
two knowledge graphs and cover both open-domain and domain-
specific QA scenarios. Specifically, WebQSP and CWQ are based on
Freebase [3], while MetaQA is constructed on Wiki-Movie [29]. As
shown in Table 1, they vary in dataset size, reasoning depth, and
question complexity, providing a comprehensive evaluation setting
for multi-hop KGQA.
For the Freebase setting, we evaluate OPI on WebQSP and CWQ,
two standard benchmarks based on the preprocessed Freebase
subgraphs widely used in prior work [11, 24]. OPI constructs the
relation-centric ontology graph from the full Freebase dump for
more complete type-level constraints, while restricting retrieval
and evaluation to the benchmark subgraphs for fair comparison.
WebQSP contains 4,737 questions and mainly involves relatively
simple reasoning, with answers typically located within two hops
of the topic entity. CWQ is more challenging, containing 34,699
questions with compositional structures and additional constraints,
often requiring up to four hops of reasoning. We follow the standard
data splits for both datasets [39].
For the Wiki-Movie setting, we adopt MetaQA, a movie-domain
KGQA benchmark built on the Wiki-Movie knowledge graph, which
contains 43,234 entities, 9 relations, and 133,582 triples. MetaQA
includes more than 400K questions and is divided into three subsets
by reasoning depth: MetaQA-1hop, MetaQA-2hop, and MetaQA-
3hop. Following prior work [11], we evaluate on all three subsets
and construct the one-shot setting by randomly sampling one train-
ing instance for each question template, resulting in 161, 210, and
150 training examples for the three subsets, respectively.
Table 1: Statistics of the experiment datasets.
Datasets KG #Train #Dev #Test Max #Hops
WebQSP Freebase 2,826 246 1628 2
CWQ Freebase 27,639 3,519 3,531 4
MetaQA-1hop Wiki-Movie 96,106 9,992 9,947 1
MetaQA-2hop Wiki-Movie 118,980 14,872 14,872 2
MetaQA-3hop Wiki-Movie 114,196 14,274 14,274 3
Evaluation Metrics.Following prior work [ 24, 39, 40], we use
Hit@1 and F1 as the primary evaluation metrics. Hit@1 measures
whether the top-ranked prediction matches any gold answer, re-
flecting top-1 answer accuracy. F1 evaluates the predicted answer
set by jointly considering precision and recall, which is important
for questions with multiple correct answers. In the ablation studies,
we additionally report precision and recall for a more fine-grained
analysis of prediction quality.
Comparison Baselines.We compare OPI with representative
KGQA methods from four categories: embedding-based methods,
retrieval-based methods, standalone LLMs, and KG-enhanced LLM
methods. The first two categories cover conventional KG reasoning
models that learn KG representations or retrieve question-relevant
subgraphs, while standalone LLMs evaluate reasoning with para-
metric knowledge alone. We further include recent KG-enhanced
LLM methods, such as ToG, RoG, ORT, and GCR, which are the most
direct competitors to OPI. For MetaQA, we additionally compare
with representative methods reported in prior work to evaluate
retrieval-only multi-hop structural reasoning.
Implementation Details.OPI uses LLaMA2-Chat-7B as the
fine-tuned backbone LLM for answer-type prediction. The model
is instruction-tuned for three epochs on four A100-40G GPUs with
batch size 4, learning rate 2e-5, cosine learning rate scheduling,
and a warmup ratio of 0.03. The joint training time is about 4.7
hours for WebQSP and CWQ, 44.0 hours for the MetaQA 1–3 hop
data, and 0.42 hours for the MetaQA-oneshot setting. For ontology-
guided bidirectional retrieval, we set the maximum reasoning depth
according to dataset hop statistics, using two hops for WebQSP
and four hops for CWQ. Retrieved evidence paths are ranked by
Sentence-BERT similarity between the question and the path text,
with all-mpnet-base-v2 as the ranking model, and at most 256 ev-
idence paths are retained for each question. For answer refinement,
we use prompt-based LLMs with temperature 0.2, maximum output
length 128, and one sampled response per question. Since different
prompt-based models may exhibit different refinement behaviors,
the number of refinement rounds is selected on the validation set:
three rounds for DeepSeek-v3 and one round for GPT-4o. In all
cases, OPI allows at most three refinement rounds and stops early
when the refiner reaches high confidence or when two consecutive
rounds produce stable answers.
4.2 Overall Evaluation (RQ1)
Table 2 reports the main results on WebQSP and CWQ. We com-
pare OPI with four groups of representative methods, including
embedding-based methods, retrieval-based methods, standalone
LLMs, and recent KG-enhanced LLM methods. Overall, OPI achieves
the best metric-wise performance on both datasets. Taking the best
score among the two OPI variants for each metric, OPI achieves
92.3 Hit@1 and 76.8 F1 on WebQSP. Compared with the strongest
previous results, it improves Hit@1 by 4.6 points and F1 by 5.0
points over ORT. On the more complex CWQ dataset, OPI achieves
76.5 Hit@1 and 62.7 F1, outperforming the metric-wise strongest
prior results by 8.9 points in Hit@1 and 3.3 points in F1. These gains
show that OPI is effective not only on WebQSP questions, which
are generally less compositional, but also on complex questions in
CWQ that require more careful multi-hop evidence retrieval.
Beyond the overall performance, we further analyze the behavior
of different method categories. Traditional embedding-based and
retrieval-based methods can exploit KG structure through learned
representations or retrieved subgraphs, but they still struggle on
7

[[page 8]]
Table 2: Comparison of methods on WebQSP and CWQ. The backbone model used by each method is shown in parentheses.
Type Methods WebQSP CWQ
Hit@1 F1 Hit@1 F1
Embedding-based
KV-Mem [29] 46.7 34.5 18.4 15.7
NSM [11] 68.7 62.8 47.6 42.4
TransferNet [37] 71.4 — 48.6 —
KGT5 [36] 56.1 — 36.5 —
Retrieval-based
GraftNet [39] 66.7 62.4 36.8 32.7
PullNet [38] 68.1 — 45.9 —
SR+NSM [50] 68.9 64.1 50.2 47.1
UniKGQA [16] 77.2 72.2 51.2 49.1
LLMs
Llama-2-7B [44] 56.4 36.5 28.4 21.4
Llama-3.1-8B [27] 55.5 34.8 28.1 22.4
ChatGPT [30] 59.3 43.5 34.7 30.2
GPT-4o [31] 61.8 43.6 38.2 32.9
DeepSeek-v3 [5] 64.0 43.9 41.1 33.8
KGs+LLMs
ToG (GPT-4) [40] 82.6 — 67.6 —
RoG (Llama-2-7B) [24] 85.7 70.8 62.6 56.2
SymAgent (Llama-2-7B) [21] 55.5 41.3 35.1 31.2
GNN-RAG (Llama-2-7B) [26] 85.7 71.3 66.8 59.4
𝑅2 (Llama-2-7B) [48] 87.2 72.4 64.0 58.0
ORT (GPT-4o) [22] 87.7 71.8 65.4 58.7
GCR (Llama-2-7B + GPT-4o) [25] 87.5 71.5 66.0 58.5
OPI(Llama-2-7B + GPT-4o)91.376.872.362.7
OPI(Llama-2-7B + DeepSeek-v3) 92.374.976.559.6
compositionally complex questions, as reflected by their consis-
tently lower scores on CWQ. Standalone LLMs achieve reason-
able results without explicit graph retrieval, but they generally
lag behind KG-enhanced LLM methods, indicating that paramet-
ric knowledge alone is insufficient for reliable multi-hop KGQA.
Recent KGs+LLMs methods further improve performance by com-
bining LLM reasoning with graph evidence, yet many of them still
retrieve evidence mainly from the topic entity side. As the hop
number increases, such topic-centered expansion can introduce
many type-mixed paths and semantically ambiguous candidates.
In contrast, OPI incorporates type-level answer-side constraints
into bidirectional retrieval and further refines candidate answers
through a generator-refiner loop, improving both evidence quality
and answer selection.
We also observe different strengths between the two OPI vari-
ants. OPI with DeepSeek-v3 achieves the highest Hit@1 on both
WebQSP and CWQ, suggesting stronger top-answer selection. OPI
with GPT-4o obtains the best F1 on both datasets, suggesting bet-
ter coverage and calibration when multiple candidate answers are
involved. Despite this difference, both variants consistently out-
perform prior KG-enhanced LLM methods, suggesting that the
improvement is not tied to a specific backbone model, but is largely
attributable to OPI’s ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval and
iterative refinement framework.
4.3 Effectiveness of Ontology-Guided
Bidirectional Retrieval (RQ2)
To further examine whether ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval
can provide effective graph evidence by itself, we evaluate OPI un-
der a pure retrieval-only setting. In this setting, candidate answers
are directly extracted from the endpoints of retrieved evidence
paths, without any subsequent LLM-based answer generation or
iterative refinement.
Table 3: Retrieval-only comparison with reproduced RoG
and GCR on WebQSP and CWQ.
Methods WebQSP CWQ
Hit@1 F1 Hit@1 F1
RoG-BR [24] 76.97 53.84 52.56 21.50
GCR-BR [25] 92.1958.0369.1239.44
OPI-BR 95.3939.0988.9529.78
Results on WebQSP and CWQ.Table 3 compares OPI with
reproduced RoG and GCR variants under the same retrieval-only
setting. OPI-BR achieves the highest Hit@1 on both datasets, reach-
ing 95.39 on WebQSP and 88.95 on CWQ. The improvement is par-
ticularly clear on CWQ, where compositional questions make topic-
centered expansion more likely to introduce noisy and type-mixed
paths. These results indicate that answer-side ontology constraints
8

[[page 9]]
can effectively restrict retrieval to structurally more plausible end-
points under complex multi-hop reasoning, thereby providing use-
ful graph-grounded evidence for subsequent answer generation
and refinement.
However, the F1 results show a different trend. On WebQSP,
OPI-BR obtains an F1 of 39.09, lower than RoG-BR and GCR-BR.
On CWQ, OPI-BR improves over RoG-BR in F1, but still lags be-
hind GCR-BR. This is because RoG and GCR already incorporate
question-level semantics during path construction: RoG prompts
the LLM to generate relation paths, while GCR further constrains
this process with graph structure. In contrast, OPI-BR in this exper-
iment mainly applies answer-side ontology constraints to retrieve
answer-type-compatible endpoints, but does not yet perform full
question-aware path verification or answer-set refinement. As a
result, its raw retrieved endpoints may still contain type-compatible
but question-irrelevant entities, which limits F1. Overall, this com-
parison shows that ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval is par-
ticularly effective for top-answer reachability and search-space
reduction, but answer-set completeness still benefits from the sub-
sequent refinement stages.
Results on MetaQA.We further evaluate the bidirectional
retrieval module of OPI on MetaQA, where questions are more
template-like and relation paths are relatively regular. Compared
with WebQSP and CWQ, MetaQA relies more on structural path
matching and less on complex semantic disambiguation, making it
suitable for evaluating pure retrieval-only reasoning. Therefore, we
report bidirectional retrieval results without additional LLM-based
answer generation, because the retrieved endpoints already provide
a direct test of whether the structural relation path can reach the
correct answer. Here, BR denotes bidirectional retrieval and does
not include any subsequent LLM-based answer generation.
Table 4 reports the results on the full MetaQA benchmark. OPI-
BR achieves near-saturated Hit@1 across all three subsets, with
100.00 on 1-hop, 99.99 on 2-hop, and 99.96 on 3-hop questions.
OPI-BR-oneshot obtains very close performance, especially on 2-
hop and 3-hop questions. These results show that when evidence
paths are regular and answer-side constraints are reliable, ontology-
guided bidirectional retrieval alone can already provide sufficient
evidence for accurate answer prediction.
4.4 Ablation Study (RQ3)
We conduct ablation studies to assess three key designs in OPI:
type-level search space, early answer-side constraint, and itera-
tive answer refinement. All variants use the same Llama-2-7B +
DeepSeek-v3 setting. Table 5 reports the results on WebQSP and
CWQ in terms of Hit@1, F1, precision, and recall.
Effect of type-level search space.This variant removes the
type-level path space and directly traverses the original KG from the
topic entity. When the number of outgoing edges is large, it keeps
the top-𝑘 paths according to the SentenceBERT similarity between
each path and the question. This change leads to the largest perfor-
mance drop: Hit@1/F1 decrease by 10.19/13.95 points on WebQSP
and by 22.37/18.54 points on CWQ. The degradation suggests that
direct topic-centered expansion is easily affected by large branching
factors. Although similarity-based pruning reduces the search cost,
it may discard correct paths before they reach the answer side. By
contrast, OPI uses type-level relation signatures to form a more
compact search space, which helps preserve answer-relevant paths
under multi-hop expansion.
Effect of in-retrieval answer-side constraint.This variant re-
moves answer-side constraints from the retrieval process. Instead,
it first performs topic-side forward expansion and then applies
answer-type-compatible final-hop relations as a post-retrieval fil-
ter. F1 decreases from 74.91 to 66.75 on WebQSP and from 59.59
to 45.61 on CWQ, showing that answer-side constraints are more
effective when they participate in retrieval rather than only filter-
ing completed paths. Since relevant paths may already be pruned
during topic-centered forward expansion, post-retrieval filtering
cannot recover them. Nevertheless, this variant still outperforms
w/o type-level search space, because the delayed final-hop filter can
still remove some answer-type-incompatible endpoints.
Effect of iterative answer refinement.This variant directly
uses the single-pass output of the same prompt-based LLM as
the final answer, without applying generator-refiner iterations. It
achieves higher Hit@1 and recall on both datasets, but lower preci-
sion and F1. For example, compared with full OPI on CWQ, recall
increases from 71.23 to 78.06, while precision decreases from 58.96
to 52.32 and F1 decreases from 59.59 to 56.42. This indicates that
single-pass generation tends to retain a broader answer set, but also
introduces more false positives. Iterative refinement therefore does
not simply maximize coverage; instead, it trades part of the aggres-
sive candidate retention for a cleaner answer set, suggesting that
refinement acts more as a precision-oriented filtering mechanism
than as a recall-maximizing step.
4.5 Analysis of Ontology Graph (RQ4)
Table 6 reports the construction statistics of the ontology graphs for
Freebase and Wiki-Movie. The results show that the proposed con-
struction procedure is feasible under different schema settings. For
Freebase, which provides explicit schema predicates, the pipeline
processes 71,210 schema entries from the RDF dump and completes
in approximately 6,958 seconds (≈1.93 hours) on a single machine.
For Wiki-Movie, where explicit schema predicates are unavailable,
the ontology graph is induced directly from 134,741 triples and
constructed in approximately 1.17 seconds. This contrast mainly
reflects the much larger scale and richer schema structure of Free-
base, while also showing that the same ontology abstraction can
be instantiated efficiently for compact domain-specific KGs.
The constructed ontology graphs cover most relations used in
downstream KGQA benchmarks. For WebQSP, only 19 out of 5,726
relations have missing or incomplete signatures, accounting for
0.33%. For CWQ, this number is 21 out of 6,576, accounting for
0.32%. Moreover, 19 missing or incomplete signatures are shared by
WebQSP and CWQ, corresponding to only 0.28% of the 6,837 unique
relations across both datasets. These results show that the Freebase-
derived ontology graph covers nearly all benchmark relations. For
MetaQA, all 9 relations have valid head–tail type signatures under
the induced Wiki-Movie ontology.
The resulting ontology graphs are also compact relative to their
underlying knowledge bases. The Freebase ontology graph contains
32,195 relation signatures and 12,369 entity types, providing broad
schema coverage without direct expansion over dense entity-level
9

[[page 10]]
Table 4: Comparison of methods on MetaQA. Results of prior methods are reported as in their original papers. Our results are
reported with two decimal places for better distinction near saturation.
Methods MetaQA-1hop MetaQA-2hop MetaQA-3hop
Hit@1 F1 Hit@1 F1 Hit@1 F1
KV-Mem [29] 96.2 — 82.7 — 48.9 —
NSM [11] 97.1 — 99.9 — 98.9 —
GraftNet [39] 97.0 — 94.8 — 77.7 —
UniKGQA [16] 97.5 — 99.0 — 99.1 —
StructGPT [13] 97.1 — 97.3 — 87.0 —
ReasoningLM [14] 96.5 — 98.3 — 92.7 —
KG-GPT [18] 96.3 — 94.4 — 94.0 —
Retrieval & Reasoning [12] — — — — 76.0 33.8
RoG [24] — — — — 84.8 41.3
BYOKG [1] 95.3 — 81.9 — 75.7 —
ARG [49] — — — — 87.7 —
SymAgent [21] — — — — 57.0 25.8
KG-Agent [15] 97.1 — 98.0 — 92.1 —
RDPG [6] 99.7 — 98.6 — 87.7 —
𝑅2 [48] — — — — 85.2 42.5
OPI-BR 100.00 96.94 99.99 83.51 99.96 59.19
OPI-BR-oneshot99.68 95.68 99.94 83.50 99.86 58.60
Table 5: Ablation study results on WebQSP and CWQ. All variants use the same Llama-2-7B + DeepSeek-v3 setting.
Method WebQSP CWQ
Hit@1 F1 Precision Recall Hit@1 F1 Precision Recall
OPI92.3274.91 80.1678.95 76.52 59.59 58.96 71.23
w/o type-level search space 82.13 60.96 65.35 66.47 54.15 41.05 41.24 48.13
w/o in-retrieval answer-side constraint 86.43 66.75 73.46 69.96 59.08 45.61 46.88 51.90
w/o iterative answer refinement93.4370.95 70.0484.96 81.2856.42 52.3278.06
Table 6: Statistics of ontology graph construction for Freebase and Wiki-Movie.
Item Freebase Wiki-Movie
Schema setting Explicit schema predicates No explicit schema predicates
Input entries 71,210 schema entries 134,741 triples
Total pipeline time (single machine)≈1.93 h≈1.17 s
Incomplete signatures in WebQSP 19/5,726 (0.33%) -
Incomplete signatures in CWQ 21/6,576 (0.32%) -
Shared incomplete signatures in WebQSP and CWQ 19/6,837 (0.28%) -
Incomplete signatures in MetaQA - 0/9 (0.00%)
Relations in ontology graph 32,195 9
Entity types in ontology graph 12,369 11
facts. The Wiki-Movie ontology graph is much smaller, with only 9
relation signatures and 11 entity types, yet still preserves the type-
level constraints required by MetaQA. These statistics suggest that
the ontology graph serves as a lightweight abstraction: it retains the
type semantics needed for retrieval while substantially simplifying
the structure used during multi-hop reasoning.
Overall, these results show that ontology graph construction is
scalable and effective across heterogeneous KG settings. Explicit
schema predicates provide reliable relation signatures for schema-
rich KGs, while schema-light KGs can be handled through data-
driven induction. Thus, the ontology graph offers a lightweight and
practical type-level interface for retrieval in multi-hop KGQA.
10

[[page 11]]
4.6 Effect of Different LLM Backbones (RQ5)
Table 7: Performance of different LLM backbone variants on
WebQSP and CWQ.
Fine-tuned
models
Prompt-based
models
WebQSP CWQ
Hit@1 F1 Hit@1 F1
Qwen2-1.5B DeepSeek-v3 91.28 73.47 75.70 58.71
GPT-4o 90.66 76.28 71.40 61.85
Qwen2-7B DeepSeek-v3 91.03 73.51 75.64 59.03
GPT-4o 90.36 75.64 70.57 61.19
Llama-2-7B DeepSeek-v3 92.32 74.91 76.52 59.59
GPT-4o 91.34 76.83 72.33 62.73
To examine whether OPI depends on a specific LLM backbone,
we evaluate different combinations of fine-tuned models and prompt-
based models. The fine-tuned models are task-adapted LLMs used
for answer-type prediction, including Qwen2-1.5B, Qwen2-7B, and
Llama-2-7B. The prompt-based models are instruction-following
LLMs used in the answer refinement stage, including DeepSeek-v3
and GPT-4o. Table 7 reports the results on WebQSP and CWQ.
Overall, OPI performs consistently well across different model
combinations. On WebQSP, all variants achieve over 90 Hit@1 and
over 73 F1. On CWQ, they also maintain strong performance, with
Hit@1 ranging from 70.57 to 76.52 and F1 ranging from 58.71 to
62.73. These results indicate that OPI is not tied to a single LLM
choice. Instead, its effectiveness largely stems from the ontology-
guided bidirectional retrieval and iterative answer refinement frame-
work, which can be adapted to different fine-tuned and prompt-
based models.
We further observe complementary behaviors between prompt-
based models. Variants using DeepSeek-v3 generally achieve higher
Hit@1, especially on CWQ, suggesting stronger top-answer selec-
tion. In contrast, variants using GPT-4o obtain higher F1 on both
datasets, indicating better answer-set calibration when multiple
candidate answers are involved. Among the fine-tuned models,
Llama-2-7B achieves the best overall results under both prompt-
based models. Nevertheless, Qwen2-1.5B and Qwen2-7B remain
competitive, showing that OPI can also operate effectively with
smaller models for answer-type prediction.
4.7 Efficiency and Robustness Analysis (RQ6)
Search-space and retrieval-cost reduction.We compare OPI’s
ontology-guided bidirectional retrieval with a forward-only base-
line by measuring the average number of candidate paths, candidate
answers, and retrieval time. As shown in Figures 4(a) and 4(b), OPI
reduces candidate paths by 98.7% on WebQSP and over 99% on CWQ,
candidate answers by 98.9% and 99.97%, and retrieval time by 95.1%
and 95.3%, respectively. These reductions show that answer-side
type constraints effectively prevent uncontrolled topic-centered ex-
pansion. By reserving the final hop for ontology-guided matching,
OPI avoids exploring many type-incompatible evidence paths and
therefore lowers retrieval cost.
Evidence cleanliness and answer coverage.We evaluate the
retrieved evidence before answer generation using precision, recall,
gold-hit rate, and top-1 hit rate. Figures 4(c) and 4(d) show that
OPI improves precision by 30.85% on WebQSP and 23.88% on CWQ,
and improves top-1 hit rate by 54.24% and 31.12%, respectively.
Although recall and gold-hit rate slightly decrease, they remain
at 88.73%/93.98% on WebQSP and 87.19%/88.98% on CWQ. This
indicates that OPI filters noisy evidence while preserving most
answer-relevant candidates.
Quality-efficiency tradeoff of adaptive refinement.We com-
pare fixed-round refinement with adaptive refinement, where the
refinement process stops based on answer stability and refiner con-
fidence. As shown in Figures 4(e) and 4(f), adaptive refinement
achieves 74.91 F1 with only 1.31 rounds on WebQSP, slightly out-
performing fixed three-round refinement. On CWQ, it achieves
59.59 F1 with 1.61 rounds, closely matching the fixed three-round
result. This reduces the average number of refinement rounds by
56.4% and 46.5%, respectively, showing that adaptive refinement
avoids unnecessary iterations while maintaining answer quality.
Benefits on semantically challenging questions.We com-
pare the initial answer and the final refined answer across temporal,
attribute/numerical, constrained, and simple questions. Figures 4(g)
and 4(h) show consistent F1 gains across all categories. On WebQSP,
the largest gain appears on simple questions, with a 5.01-point im-
provement, followed by constrained questions with a 3.91-point
gain. On CWQ, temporal questions benefit the most, with an 8.23-
point improvement, while constrained and simple questions im-
prove by 3.37 and 3.13 points, respectively. These results suggest
that iterative answer refinement helps OPI mitigate semantic am-
biguity, complementing bidirectional retrieval, which primarily
addresses structural path explosion.
5 RELATED WORK
5.1 Multi-hop Knowledge Graph Question
Answering
Existing multi-hop KGQA methods can be broadly grouped into
embedding-based methods, retrieval-based methods, standalone
LLM methods, and KG-enhanced LLM methods. Early embedding-
based methods, such as KV-Mem [29], NSM [11], TransferNet [37],
and KGT5 [36], learn graph-aware representations by encoding
questions and entities in continuous spaces or propagating question-
aware signals over graph structures. Although effective, their rea-
soning process is often implicit and may not preserve explicit multi-
hop path semantics. Retrieval-based methods instead construct
question-relevant subgraphs or evidence paths before answer pre-
diction, as in GraftNet [ 39], SR+NSM [ 50], and UniKGQA [ 16].
While these methods improve interpretability by exposing support-
ing evidence, they typically rely on topic-centered expansion and
may retrieve many structurally reachable but semantically irrele-
vant paths as reasoning depth increases.
With the emergence of large language models, standalone LLMs
have been applied to KGQA through prompting, in-context learn-
ing, or chain-of-thought reasoning. Models such as Llama-2, Llama-
3.1, ChatGPT, GPT-4o, and DeepSeek-v3 show strong language
understanding and reasoning abilities [5, 27, 30, 31, 44], but they
may hallucinate unsupported facts and are limited by the absence
of explicit graph-grounded evidence. Recent KG-enhanced LLM
methods address this limitation by incorporating retrieved triples,
11

[[page 12]]
Candidate
Paths
Candidate
Answers
Retrieval
Time
100
101
102
103
104
Count / Time (ms)
8287.8
4748.7
20.3
106.5
51.6
1.0
(a) WebQSP Search/Cost
Forward
Bidirectional
Candidate
Paths
Candidate
Answers
Retrieval
Time
102
103
104
105
106
107
Count / Time (ms)
12476778.3
221224.1
22704.3
147.2
70.2
1066.8
(b) CWQ Search/Cost
Forward
Bidirectional
Precision Recall Gold Hit Top-1 Hit
0
20
40
60
80
100Percentage (%)
0.17
94.18 95.76
4.18
31.02
88.73
93.98
58.42
(c) WebQSP Evidence Quality
Forward
Bidirectional
Precision Recall Gold Hit Top-1 Hit
0
20
40
60
80
100Percentage (%)
0.00
96.09 96.57
1.70
23.88
87.19 88.98
32.82
(d) CWQ Evidence Quality
Forward
Bidirectional
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
Average refinement rounds
70
71
72
73
74
75
76F1 (%)
Gen-1
Ref-1
Ref-2 Ref-3
Adaptive
Avg rounds = 1.31
Round saving = 56.4%
(e) WebQSP Quality-Efficiency Tradeoff
Fixed-round Refinement
Adaptive Refinement
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
Average refinement rounds
56
57
58
59
60
61F1 (%)
Gen-1
Ref-1
Ref-2
Ref-3
Adaptive
Avg rounds = 1.61
Round saving = 46.5%
(f) CWQ Quality-Efficiency Tradeoff
Fixed-round Refinement
Adaptive Refinement
Temporal
(n=90)
Attr./Num.
(n=26)
Constrained
(n=188)
Simple
(n=1324)
40
50
60
70
80
90
100F1 (%)
44.26
87.54
75.12
69.50
46.61
90.54
79.03
74.51
(g) WebQSP Category Gains
Initial Answer
Final Answer
Temporal
(n=66)
Attr./Num.
(n=131)
Constrained
(n=2339)
Simple
(n=995)
45
50
55
60
65
70F1 (%)
49.87 49.72
56.83
54.08
58.10
52.53
60.20
57.21
(h) CWQ Category Gains
Initial Answer
Final Answer
Figure 4: Efficiency and robustness analysis of OPI. (a)-(b) Search-space and retrieval-cost comparison between forward-only
and bidirectional retrieval. (c)-(d) Evidence quality comparison before answer generation. (e)-(f) Quality-efficiency tradeoff of
adaptive refinement. (g)-(h) F1 gains across question categories.
evidence paths, graph structures, or symbolic tools into LLM-based
reasoning. For example, ToG explores reasoning chains over KGs
with LLM guidance [40], RoG generates relation paths for graph-
grounded reasoning [24], SymAgent combines symbolic reasoning
with agentic LLM behaviors [21], GNN-RAG integrates graph neural
retrieval with LLM generation [26], and GCR further improves KG-
enhanced reasoning through graph-context reasoning [25]. Recent
work such as𝑅2 also emphasizes reliable reasoning with LLMs over
KGs [48]. These methods substantially improve graph-grounded
answer generation, but their retrieval stages are still largely driven
by topic-side exploration or post-retrieval evidence selection. In
contrast, OPI introduces answer-side type constraints into the re-
trieval process itself, using a relation-centric ontology graph to
guide final-hop matching and reduce noisy path explosion before
LLM-based answer refinement.
5.2 Ontology and Type-level Guidance
Ontology and schema information provide high-level semantic
structures for organizing entities, relations, types, and constraints
in knowledge graphs. Compared with entity-level triples, type-level
abstractions capture more stable semantic regularities, such as the
expected head and tail types of relations. Recent studies have ex-
plored LLMs for ontology construction, enhancement, and learning
[2, 9, 43], as well as ontology construction from large RDF resources
or capability-question-driven workflows [4, 19]. These studies show
that ontology construction and enrichment can provide useful foun-
dations for knowledge-intensive tasks.
In KGQA, ontology information has been used to improve the
semantic alignment between natural-language questions and graph
structures. For example, ontology-guided prompting and reverse-
thinking strategies have been introduced to strengthen multi-hop
reasoning and generalization [17, 22], while OntoTune aligns LLMs
with domain ontologies through ontology-driven self-training [23].
However, most existing methods use ontology information only
as auxiliary signals, providing limited graph-grounded constraints
in large heterogeneous retrieval spaces. Industrial systems such
as Palantir further show that ontology can serve as a structured
interface connecting data, reasoning, and downstream actions [32].
OPI follows this motivation but specializes it for multi-hop KGQA:
it constructs a relation-centric ontology graph from the KG itself
and uses type-level signatures to map the predicted answer type to
compatible final-hop relations, thereby integrating type-level and
entity-level path search.
6 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we proposed OPI, an ontology-guided evidence path
inference framework for multi-hop KGQA. OPI introduces a relation-
centric ontology graph to make answer-side type constraints ex-
plicit, and combines topic-side prefix expansion with answer-side
final-hop matching to reduce noisy path explosion. It further em-
ploys a generator-refiner loop to jointly reassess retrieved evidence
and answer hypotheses, filtering type-compatible but question-
irrelevant candidates. Experiments on WebQSP, CWQ, and MetaQA
show that OPI consistently outperforms representative multi-hop
KGQA methods. These results demonstrate that OPI provides a
compact and reusable relation-centric ontology graph for retrieval,
while effectively alleviating path explosion and semantic misalign-
ment in multi-hop KGQA.
In future work, we plan to extend OPI to knowledge graphs
with weaker or less reliable type information. A key direction is
to construct and update relation signatures when entity types are
missing, noisy, or only partially available, so that ontology-guided
retrieval remains effective beyond KGs with well-defined schemas.
Such an extension would broaden the applicability of OPI to open-
domain and dynamically evolving knowledge graphs.
12

[[page 13]]
REFERENCES
[1] Dhruv Agarwal, Rajarshi Das, Sopan Khosla, and Rashmi Gangadharaiah. 2024.
Bring your own KG: Self-supervised program synthesis for zero-shot KGQA. In
Findings of the association for computational linguistics: NAACL 2024. Association
for Computational Linguistics, Mexico City, Mexico, 896–919.
[2] Hamed Babaei Giglou, Jennifer D’Souza, and Sören Auer. 2023. LLMs4OL: Large
language models for ontology learning. InInternational Semantic Web Conference.
Springer, 408–427.
[3] Kurt Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen Paritosh, Tim Sturge, and Jamie Taylor.
2008. Freebase: a collaboratively created graph database for structuring human
knowledge. InProceedings of the 2008 ACM SIGMOD international conference
on Management of data. Association for Computing Machinery, Vancouver, BC,
Canada, 1247–1250.
[4] Deyan Chen and Hong Zhao. 2018. Research on the method of extracting domain
knowledge from the freebase RDF dumps.IEEE Access6 (2018), 50306–50322.
[5] DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu,
Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan,
et al. 2024.DeepSeek-V3 Technical Report. Technical Report arXiv:2412.19437.
DeepSeek-AI. https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19437
[6] Lianhong Ding, Na Ding, Qi Tao, and Peng Shi. 2025. Enhancing graph multi-hop
reasoning for question answering with llms: An approach based on adaptive path
generation.Journal of Intelligent Information Systems63, 5 (2025), 1455–1485.
[7] Xin Luna Dong. 2023. Generations of Knowledge Graphs: The Crazy Ideas
and the Business Impact.Proc. VLDB Endow.16, 12 (Aug. 2023), 4130–4137.
https://doi.org/10.14778/3611540.3611636
[8] Giacomo Frisoni, Alessio Cocchieri, Alex Presepi, Gianluca Moro, and Zaiqiao
Meng. 2024. To Generate or to Retrieve? On the Effectiveness of Artificial
Contexts for Medical Open-Domain Question Answering. InProceedings of the
62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (Eds.). Association
for Computational Linguistics, Bangkok, Thailand, 9878–9919. https://doi.org/
10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.533
[9] Maurice Funk, Simon Hosemann, Jean Christoph Jung, and Carsten Lutz. 2023.
Towards ontology construction with language models. InJoint proceedings of
the 1st workshop on Knowledge Base Construction from Pre-Trained Language
Models (KBC-LM) and the 2nd challenge on Language Models for Knowledge
Base Construction (LM-KBC) co-located with the 22nd International Semantic Web
Conference (ISWC 2023), Vol. 3577.
[10] Congcong Ge, Xiaoze Liu, Lu Chen, Yunjun Gao, and Baihua Zheng. 2021.
LargeEA: aligning entities for large-scale knowledge graphs.Proceedings of the
VLDB Endowment15, 2 (Oct. 2021), 237–245. https://doi.org/10.14778/3489496.
3489504
[11] Gaole He, Yunshi Lan, Jing Jiang, Wayne Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2021.
Improving multi-hop knowledge base question answering by learning interme-
diate supervision signals. InProceedings of the 14th ACM international conference
on web search and data mining. Association for Computing Machinery, Online,
553–561.
[12] Yixin Ji, Kaixin Wu, Juntao Li, Wei Chen, Mingjie Zhong, Xu Jia, and Min Zhang.
2024. Retrieval and reasoning on KGs: Integrate knowledge graphs into large
language models for complex question answering. InFindings of the Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024. Association for Computational
Linguistics, Miami, Florida, USA, 7598–7610.
[13] Jinhao Jiang, Kun Zhou, Zican Dong, Keming Ye, Wayne Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong
Wen. 2023. Structgpt: A general framework for large language model to reason
over structured data. InProceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics,
Singapore, 9237–9251.
[14] Jinhao Jiang, Kun Zhou, Wayne Xin Zhao, Yaliang Li, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2023.
Reasoninglm: Enabling structural subgraph reasoning in pre-trained language
models for question answering over knowledge graph. InProceedings of the 2023
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for
Computational Linguistics, Singapore, 3721–3735.
[15] Jinhao Jiang, Kun Zhou, Wayne Xin Zhao, Yang Song, Chen Zhu, Hengshu Zhu,
and Ji-Rong Wen. 2025. KG-Agent: An efficient autonomous agent framework
for complex reasoning over knowledge graph. InProceedings of the 63rd Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Vienna, Austria, 9505–9523.
[16] Jinhao Jiang, Kun Zhou, Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2023. UniKGQA: Unified
Retrieval and Reasoning for Solving Multi-hop Question Answering Over Knowl-
edge Graph. InThe Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations.
ICLR, OpenReview.net, Kigali, Rwanda, 16. https://openreview.net/forum?id=
Z63RvyAZ2Vh
[17] Longquan Jiang, Junbo Huang, Cedric Moller, and Ricardo Usbeck. 2025.
Ontology-Guided, Hybrid Prompt Learning for Generalization in Knowledge
Graph Question Answering. In2025 19th International Conference on Semantic
Computing (ICSC). IEEE Computer Society, 28–35.
[18] Jiho Kim, Yeonsu Kwon, Yohan Jo, and Edward Choi. 2023. KG-GPT: A general
framework for reasoning on knowledge graphs using large language models. In
Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023. Association
for Computational Linguistics, Singapore, 9410–9421.
[19] Vamsi Krishna Kommineni, Birgitta König-Ries, and Sheeba Samuel. 2024. From
human experts to machines: An LLM supported approach to ontology and knowl-
edge graph construction.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08345(2024).
[20] Junlin Lee, Yequan Wang, Jing Li, and Min Zhang. 2024. Multimodal Reasoning
with Multimodal Knowledge Graph. InProceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), Lun-Wei
Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (Eds.). Association for Computational
Linguistics, Bangkok, Thailand, 10767–10782. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.
acl-long.579
[21] Ben Liu, Jihai Zhang, Fangquan Lin, Cheng Yang, Min Peng, and Wotao Yin.
2025. Symagent: A neural-symbolic self-learning agent framework for complex
reasoning over knowledge graphs. InProceedings of the ACM on Web Conference
2025. Association for Computing Machinery, Sydney, Australia, 98–108.
[22] Runxuan Liu, Luobei Luobei, Jiaqi Li, Baoxin Wang, Ming Liu, Dayong Wu,
Shijin Wang, and Bing Qin. 2025. Ontology-Guided Reverse Thinking Makes
Large Language Models Stronger on Knowledge Graph Question Answering.
InProceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), Wanxiang Che, Joyce Nabende, Ekaterina
Shutova, and Mohammad Taher Pilehvar (Eds.). Association for Computational
Linguistics, Vienna, Austria, 15269–15284. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2025.acl-
long.741
[23] Zhiqiang Liu, Chengtao Gan, Junjie Wang, Yichi Zhang, Zhongpu Bo, Mengshu
Sun, Huajun Chen, and Wen Zhang. 2025. Ontotune: Ontology-driven self-
training for aligning large language models. InProceedings of the ACM on Web
Conference 2025. 119–133.
[24] Linhao Luo, Yuan-Fang Li, Gholamreza Haffari, and Shirui Pan. 2024. Reasoning
on Graphs: Faithful and Interpretable Large Language Model Reasoning. InThe
Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations. OpenReview.net,
Vienna, Austria, 1–24. https://openreview.net/forum?id=ZGNWW7xZ6Q
[25] Linhao Luo, Zicheng Zhao, Gholamreza Haffari, Yuan-Fang Li, Chen Gong,
and Shirui Pan. 2025. Graph-constrained Reasoning: Faithful Reasoning on
Knowledge Graphs with Large Language Models. InProceedings of the 42nd
International Conference on Machine Learning, Vol. 267. Proceedings of Machine
Learning Research, Vancouver, Canada, 41540–41565. https://proceedings.mlr.
press/v267/luo25t.html
[26] Costas Mavromatis and George Karypis. 2025. Gnn-rag: Graph neural retrieval
for efficient large language model reasoning on knowledge graphs. InFind-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025. Association for
Computational Linguistics, Vienna, Austria, 16682–16699.
[27] Meta. 2024. Build the future of ai with meta llama 3. https://llama.meta.com/
llama3/
[28] Microsoft. 2015. FastRDFStore-data. https://download.microsoft.com/download/
A/E/4/AE428B7A-9EF9-446C-85CF-D8ED0C9B1F26/FastRDFStore-data.zip
[29] Alexander Miller, Adam Fisch, Jesse Dodge, Amir-Hossein Karimi, Antoine
Bordes, and Jason Weston. 2016. Key-value memory networks for directly
reading documents. InProceedings of the 2016 conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, Austin,
Texas, 1400–1409.
[30] OpenAI. 2022. Introducing ChatGPT. https://openai.com/index/chatgpt/
[31] OpenAI. 2024. Hello gpt-4o. https://openai.com/index/hello-gpt-4o/
[32] Palantir. 2024. Connecting AI to Decisions with the Palantir Ontol-
ogy. https://blog.palantir.com/connecting-ai-to-decisions-with-the-palantir-
ontology-c73f7b0a1a72. Accessed: 2026-04-29.
[33] Shirui Pan, Linhao Luo, Yufei Wang, Chen Chen, Jiapu Wang, and Xindong Wu.
2024. Unifying Large Language Models and Knowledge Graphs: A Roadmap.
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering36, 7 (2024), 3580–3599.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TKDE.2024.3352100
[34] Kashif Rabbani, Matteo Lissandrini, and Katja Hose. 2023. Extraction of Validating
Shapes from Very Large Knowledge Graphs.Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment
16, 5 (Jan. 2023), 1023–1032. https://doi.org/10.14778/3579075.3579078
[35] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-bert: Sentence embeddings
using siamese bert-networks. InProceedings of the 2019 conference on empirical
methods in natural language processing and the 9th international joint conference
on natural language processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP). 3982–3992.
[36] Apoorv Saxena, Adrian Kochsiek, and Rainer Gemulla. 2022. Sequence-to-
sequence knowledge graph completion and question answering. InProceedings
of the 60th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics (vol-
ume 1: long papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Dublin, Ireland,
2814–2828.
[37] Jiaxin Shi, Shulin Cao, Lei Hou, Juanzi Li, and Hanwang Zhang. 2021. Transfernet:
An effective and transparent framework for multi-hop question answering over
relation graph. InProceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, Online
and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 4149–4158.
13

[[page 14]]
[38] Haitian Sun, Tania Bedrax-Weiss, and William Cohen. 2019. Pullnet: Open
domain question answering with iterative retrieval on knowledge bases and text.
InProceedings of the 2019 conference on empirical methods in natural language
processing and the 9th international joint conference on natural language processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP). Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China,
2380–2390.
[39] Haitian Sun, Bhuwan Dhingra, Manzil Zaheer, Kathryn Mazaitis, Ruslan Salakhut-
dinov, and William Cohen. 2018. Open Domain Question Answering Using Early
Fusion of Knowledge Bases and Text. InProceedings of the 2018 Conference on Em-
pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational
Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium, 4231–4242.
[40] Jiashuo Sun, Chengjin Xu, Lumingyuan Tang, Saizhuo Wang, Chen Lin, Yeyun
Gong, Lionel Ni, Heung-Yeung Shum, and Jian Guo. 2024. Think-on-Graph: Deep
and Responsible Reasoning of Large Language Model on Knowledge Graph.
InThe Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations. OpenRe-
view.net, Vienna, Austria, 31. https://openreview.net/forum?id=nnVO1PvbTv
[41] Alon Talmor and Jonathan Berant. 2018. The Web as a Knowledge-Base for
Answering Complex Questions. InProceedings of the 2018 Conference of the
North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers). Association for Computational
Linguistics, New Orleans, Louisiana, 641–651.
[42] Xingyu Tan, Xiaoyang Wang, Qing Liu, Xiwei Xu, Xin Yuan, and Wenjie Zhang.
2025. Paths-over-Graph: Knowledge Graph Empowered Large Language Model
Reasoning. InProceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025(Sydney NSW,
Australia)(WWW ’25). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 3505–3522. https://doi.org/10.1145/3696410.3714892
[43] Sabrina Toro, Anna V. Anagnostopoulos, Sue Bello, Kai Blumberg, Rhiannon
Cameron, Leigh Carmody, Alexander D. Diehl, Damion M. Dooley, William
Duncan, Petra Fey, Pascale Gaudet, Nomi L. Harris, marcin p. joachimiak, Leila
Kiani, Tiago Lubiana, Monica C. Munoz-Torres, Shawn T. O’Neil, David Osumi-
Sutherland, Aleix Puig, Justin Reese, Leonore Reiser, Sofia M C Robb, Troy
Ruemping, James Seager, Eric Sid, Ray Stefancsik, Magalie Weber, Valerie Wood,
Melissa A. Haendel, and Christopher J. Mungall. 2024. Dynamic retrieval aug-
mented generation of ontologies using artificial intelligence (DRAGON-AI).Jour-
nal of Biomedical Semantics15, 1 (2024), 19.
[44] Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi,
Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti
Bhosale, et al. 2023. Llama 2: Open Foundation and Fine-Tuned Chat Models.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.09288 arXiv:2307.09288 [cs.CL]
[45] Yilin Wen, Zifeng Wang, and Jimeng Sun. 2024. MindMap: Knowledge Graph
Prompting Sparks Graph of Thoughts in Large Language Models. InProceedings
of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (Eds.).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Bangkok, Thailand, 10370–10388.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.558
[46] Tian Yang, Yupeng Mei, Ling Xu, Huihui Yu, and Yingyi Chen. 2024. Applica-
tion of question answering systems for intelligent agriculture production and
sustainable management: A review.Resources, Conservation and Recycling204
(2024), 107497. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2024.107497
[47] Wen-tau Yih, Matthew Richardson, Christopher Meek, Ming-Wei Chang, and
Jina Suh. 2016. The value of semantic parse labeling for knowledge base question
answering. InProceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers). Association for Computational
Linguistics, Berlin, Germany, 201–206.
[48] Changsen Yuan, Rui Lin, and Cunhan Guo. 2026. Reliable reasoning: Learning and
inference based on the ability of large language models.Applied Soft Computing
190 (2026), 114618.
[49] Han Zhang, Langshi Zhou, and Hanfang Yang. 2025. Learning to Retrieve and
Reason on Knowledge Graph through Active Self-Reflection. https://doi.org/10.
48550/arXiv.2502.14932 arXiv:2502.14932 [cs.CL]
[50] Jing Zhang, Xiaokang Zhang, Jifan Yu, Jian Tang, Jie Tang, Cuiping Li, and Hong
Chen. 2022. Subgraph Retrieval Enhanced Model for Multi-hop Knowledge
Base Question Answering. InProceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association
for Computational Linguistics, Dublin, Ireland, 5773–5784.
[51] Yuyu Zhang, Hanjun Dai, Zornitsa Kozareva, Alexander Smola, and Le Song.
2018. Variational reasoning for question answering with knowledge graph. In
Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, Vol. 32. AAAI Press,
New Orleans, Lousiana, USA, 6069–6076.
14