[[page 1]]
111
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation
VAIBHAV MAVI,New York University, United States of America
ANUBHAV JANGRA*,Indian Institute of Technology Patna, India
ADAM JATOWT, University of Innsbruck, Austria
The problem of Question Answering (QA) has attracted significant research interest for long. Its relevance
to language understanding and knowledge retrieval tasks, along with the simple setting makes the task of
QA crucial for strong AI systems. Recent success on simple QA tasks has shifted the focus to more complex
settings. Among these, Multi-Hop QA (MHQA) is one of the most researched tasks over the recent years.
The ability to answer multi-hop questions and perform multi step reasoning can significantly improve the
utility of NLP systems. Consequently, the field has seen a sudden surge with high quality datasets, models and
evaluation strategies. The notion of ‘multiple hops’ is somewhat abstract which results in a large variety of
tasks that require multi-hop reasoning. This implies that different datasets and models differ significantly
which makes the field challenging to generalize and survey. This work aims to provide a general and formal
definition of MHQA task, and organize and summarize existing MHQA frameworks. We also outline the best
methods to create MHQA datasets. The paper provides a systematic and thorough introduction as well as the
structuring of the existing attempts to this highly interesting, yet quite challenging task.
CCS Concepts: • Information systems→ Question answering; Content analysis and feature selection.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: question answering, multi-hop question answering, information retrieval,
neural networks
ACM Reference Format:
Vaibhav Mavi, Anubhav Jangra*, and Adam Jatowt. 2018. A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and
Generation. J. ACM 37, 4, Article 111 (August 2018), 45 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/1122445.1122456
1 INTRODUCTION
One of the ultimate goals of AI is to impart the ability to ‘think’ to machines. In order to achieve this,
several tasks have been proposed that require an agent to do some reasoning to get to the goal. One
such example is the task of Question Answering (QA) where given a question and some relevant
context, the goal is to predict the correct answer. The task of QA provides a quantifiable way to
evaluate an NLP system’s capability of language understanding and reasoning [58, 113, 115]. The
more traditional work focuses on performing this reasoning over a single context [91, 113, 127, 157].
Due to recent advancements in Deep Learning techniques [83], the machines have become able to
successfully beat human performance on datasets like SQUAD 2.0 [116].
However, the success in simple QA is only a step towards the goal of MHQA. Furthermore,
Min et al. [101] and Qiu et al. [113] observe that questions in existing single hop QA datasets are
answerable without much reasoning, by retrieving a small set of sentences. Moreover, multi-step
*Work done while the author was at Google Research.
Authors’ addresses: Vaibhav Mavi, vaibhavg152@gmail.com, New York University, New York, United States of America;
Anubhav Jangra*, anubhav0603@gmail.com, Indian Institute of Technology Patna, Patna, Bihar, India; Adam Jatowt,
Deparment of Computer Science, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria, jatowt@acm.org.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and
the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.
0004-5411/2018/8-ART111 $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/1122445.1122456
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.
arXiv:2204.09140v1  [cs.CL]  19 Apr 2022

[[page 2]]
111:2 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
reasoning is required by the models to answer complex questions (refer to Table 1). Humans
can easily perform these multi-step reasoning in their everyday tasks, yet this is still a difficult
task for machines. An agent can be said to perform multi-step reasoning if it reaches one or
more intermediate conclusions before concluding the final answer and each of the intermediate
conclusions serves as a necessary premise for the next one. This sequence of intermediate and the
final conclusions is called a reasoning chain.
♂
Available Context - B's father is C and her mother is A
C
♀
A
B
is father of is mother of
?
Deduction - B is the daughter of A.
Question - Who is the daughter of A?
Fig. 1. Example of multi-hop Reasoning.
It is important to note that the inability of AI systems to perform multiple steps of reasoning can
be severely limiting, significantly reducing their usability. For instance, say a user is interested in
knowing more about ‘the daughter of A’ and the only relevant information available in this context
is ‘B’s father is C and her mother is A’. In this case, the AI system has to first infer that B is female
and her mother is A. The system will then have to use commonsense reasoning to conclude that B
is the entity of interest and then retrieve the required information (refer to Fig. 1 for visual aid). It
can be somewhat surprising that something that seems trivial to humans, will fatally confuse the
current AI systems. Therefore, we argue that multi-step reasoning is a crucial challenge and solving
it can be a giant leap towards the goal of AI. The task of Multi-Hop Question Answering (MHQA)
serves as an appropriate benchmark task for evaluating an agent’s ability to perform multi-step
reasoning. The goal is to predict the correct answer to a question that requires multiple reasoning
‘hops’ across given contexts (text, table, knowledge graph etc).
Apart from the scientific significance noted above, the task of MHQA has various practical
applications. Queries given to current web search systems can often require multi-hop reasoning to
reach the relevant documents. User satisfaction when using such systems can be greatly improved by
utilizing multi-hop reasoning models. Furthermore, conversations between humans and agents can
be smoother and more informative if the latter can handle complex questions such as ones requiring
multiple reasoning steps for finding the answer. Answering multi-hop question requires systems to
aggregate information over multiple contexts. Therefore, techniques that are successful for MHQA
can be incorporated to tasks such as sentence fusion [ 47, 158] and abstractive summarization
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 3]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:3
[84, 104], event occurrence time prediction [155], as well as multi-document summarization [ 6,
50, 56, 94] or timeline summarization [ 48, 136, 172, 177] that require information aggregation
over multiple documents. Additionally, all applications of QA such as information extraction (IE),
entailment can be immensely benefited by multi-hop reasoning abilities [11].
Kumar et al. [79] argue that MHQA is a challenging task to an extent that they quantify the
difficulty of a question as the number of inference steps (or hops) required to answer the question.
This illustrates the direct utility of MHQA for the task of Difficulty controllable Question Generation
(DQG) [44] that has various applications including curriculum-learning based methods for QA
systems [80] and designing school exams of certain difficulty levels [120].
Another problem closely related to MHQA consists of generating clarifying questions for conver-
sational QA (chatbots) [138, 178]. In this setting, the original question/query can be ambiguous and
hence more information is needed to disambiguate it. The model is supposed to generate a clarifying
question in natural language, asking the user for the missing information. This can be considered as
another task involving multi-step reasoning and can be greatly helped by improvements in MHQA.
Recently, a variety of datasets and techniques have been proposed for MHQA, including ones
designed for MHQA over Knowledge Bases and Knowledge Graphs as well as those designed for
QA over tables and text. A substantial number of recent works have focused on the task of MHQA
and contributed to significant advancements. High quality datasets [ 21, 71, 72, 77, 97, 159, 173]
have encouraged better models to be proposed which in turn have achieved impressive accuracy
on these benchmarks. There has been a significant research in the recent years to solve the task. A
variety of methods model the task as performing inference over static or dynamic graphs to find
the reasoning paths [14, 15, 30, 34, 40, 61, 113, 128, 142, 179, 181]. A number of works have also
attempted to decompose the multi-hop questions into single hop questions or generate follow-up
questions based on the retrieved information [14, 95, 102, 138, 181].
Table 1. Examples of various types of multi-hop questions.
Type of question Question Answer
Bridge Entity-based
(temporal entity)
Who was the president of United States
in the year in which Mike Tyson
declared his retirement?
George W. Bush
Bridge Entity-based
(geographical entity)
What is the national bird of the nation
that has a negative carbon footprint? The Raven
Bridge Entity-based
(named entity)
What is the birth place of the tennis
player who has won the most grand slams? Manacor, Spain
Intersection Who is the only person to win
an olympic medal and a Nobel prize? Philip John Noel-Baker
Comparison Which country has won more
soccer world cups - Argentina or Brazil? Brazil
Commonsense Reasoning
If A prefers fruits over meat,
when given an option of apple and
chicken sandwich, what will A prefer?
Apple
Due to the surge in the attention received by the task over the last 4 years, we believe that the
community would benefit from an extensive survey encompassing all the significant recent works
in MHQA. In this work, we closely cover up 51 works from top venues including but not limited to
EMNLP, ACL, NAACL, TACL, AAAI, EACL, SIGIR, ICLR, COLING, CoRR etc. published from 2016
to 2021.
The research community has already several surveys in the field of question-answering, such as for
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 4]]
111:4 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
single-hop QA [2, 12, 33, 60, 103, 132], open-domain QA [184], medical QA [68, 88] etc. The surveys
that are most relevant to MHQA are the ones focused on QA over knowledge bases [32, 43, 82] and
visual QA [88, 135, 164]. However, these can be considered as sub-domains of the more general
formulation of MHQA field that this manuscript aims to survey. Since the existing works go a long
way in summarizing their intended domains, we choose to exclude Visual MHQA and MHQA over
Knowledge Bases and Knowledge Graphs from the scope of this work.
We observe that despite the impressive accuracy of recent models on MHQA benchmarks, a
significant number of works have been skeptical of whether these models are actually able to
perform multi-step reasoning in order to answer the multi-hop questions. Several works [17, 62, 63,
66, 100, 141, 144, 146, 151] conduct experiments and prove that a significant portion of the accuracy
can be ascribed to pattern matching and single step reasoning (also termed as shortcut reasoning).
This points the community towards new challenges and future directions for research in MHQA.
Above all, it is fair to say that despite the inspiring progress made so far, the task of MHQA is still
a long way from being solved.
One of the promising directions is the task of explainable MHQA, a particular setting of MHQA
that requires the model to output the correct reasoning chain (or equivalently, some kind of
representation of the reasoning chain) along with the correct answer. This increases the model’s
accountability and interpretability to the end user since the model now has to also explain how it
reached the answer. Interpretability of the AI systems is crucial for their wide adoption for most
high-stake applications such as finance, law and healthcare [3, 4, 10, 49, 122]. Consequently, more
recent works [18, 42, 62, 66, 173] have focused on this setting. Yang et al. [173] have also argued
that training the model to output reasoning chain can also help in training to predict the correct
answer as it serves as an auxiliary task to MHQA. Tu et al. [146] find that using the reasoning chain
as a supervision signal during training improves the performance on adversarial examples as well.
The contributions of this manuscript can be summarized as:
• To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to survey the recent works in the domain
of MHQA.
• To the best of our knowledge, we are first to provide a formal definition for MHQA that is
general enough to encompass existing variants of the task and also to promote new variants.
• We propose a taxonomy of the existing works in MHQA that allows to systematically organize
and structure the current works.
• We provide a concise set of data annotation guidelines that existing works have adopted and
found beneficial.
• We propose candidate future directions for continuing MHQA research.
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows: Section 2 aims to formalize the task of
MHQA in a way that encompasses all existing and possible future variants. Section 3 describes
existing MHQA datasets, their creation techniques, critiques and challenges1. Section 5 formally
describes a taxonomy for existing methods and Section 4 discusses these methods in detail. Section
6 discusses the standard evaluation metrics along with additional evaluation methods specifically
designed for evaluating multi-step reasoning/retrieval Section 8 then summarizes these insights
and critiques to propose promising directions for future research in MHQA.
2 MULTI-HOP QUESTION ANSWERING TASK
Formally defining the task of multi-hop question answering is not straightforward, since the
definition of a hop is ambiguous in itself. For instance, in the context of open-domain QA on text
1We discuss the datasets before methods as doing so provides on overview of the existing variants of the tasks which would
be helpful to understand the intuition behind the proposed architectures.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 5]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:5
documents, a hop could signify reasoning across different documents [173] whereas for QA over
long documents, reasoning across different sections or paragraphs is a hop [138]. To the best of
our knowledge, existing works do not provide a general definition of the task that encompasses
its different variants. We argue that in order to systematically tackle the problem, and to obtain a
good understanding of the progress in MHQA, it is crucial to first have a general definition.
We attribute the generality of the MHQG by keeping the notion of a context abstract. Depending
on the task, a context can be any single independent piece of information: a sentence, a document,
an image or an entity in a knowledge graph. Keeping this in mind, we formally define the task of
multi-hop question answering as:
Let C denote the set of all contexts,S denote the set of all questions andA denote the set of
all possible answers. Given a question𝑞∈S and a set of related contexts,𝐶⊆ C, the task is to
approximate a function𝑓 :S× C𝑛↦→A∪{ Φ}, that satisfies:
𝑓(𝑞,𝐶) =
(
𝑎∈A ∃ 𝑃𝑞 ={𝑝1,··· ,𝑝𝑘}⊆ 𝐶,𝑘 > 1 & 𝑃𝑞|=(𝑎𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑤𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑞 )
Φ 𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑤𝑖𝑠𝑒 (1)
𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑒 |= represents entailment, and Φ is the output when𝑞 is unanswerable using C2.
Given a question𝑞 and a set of contexts𝐶,𝑓 returns an answer𝑎 that answers𝑞 by using a subset
of ‘gold’ supporting contexts𝑃 from𝐶. The number of gold supporting contexts𝑘 is restricted to
be more than 1 to ensure that the question is not solvable using a single hop (𝑘 = 1 reduces the
task to traditional QA).
This definition provides an inkling to the two sub-problems required to solve the QA task:
Information Retrieval (IR) and Reading Comprehension (RC). Typically,𝑓 can be decomposed into
(IR)𝑔 :S× C𝑛↦→ C𝑘 and (RC)ℎ :S× C𝑘↦→A∪{ Φ}, for some𝑘∈ Z, 𝑘 > 1 such that:
𝑔(𝑞,𝐶) =𝑃𝑞 (2)
where𝑃𝑞⊆𝐶 is the set of contexts relevant to𝑞.
ℎ(𝑞,𝑃𝑞) =
(
𝑎 𝑃 𝑞|=(𝑎𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑤𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑞 )
Φ 𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑤𝑖𝑠𝑒 𝑎𝑛𝑑 (3)
𝑓(𝑞,𝐶) =ℎ(𝑞,𝑔(𝑞,𝐶)) (4)
Reasoning chain: A reasoning chain for a question 𝑃′
𝑞 ={𝑝′
𝑞,𝑖}𝑘
𝑖=1 is defined as an ordered
permutation of the set𝑃𝑞 defined above, such that:
∀𝑗, 1≤ 𝑗 <𝑘, 𝑝′
𝑞,𝑗− →𝑝′
𝑞,𝑗+1 represents the𝑗𝑡ℎ reasoning step and
𝑝′
𝑞,𝑘− →𝑎 is the𝑘𝑡ℎ reasoning step.
It is important to note that the granularity of what constitutes a reasoning chain can also be smaller
than that of the contexts. For example, when the granularity of a context is passage, the reasoning
chain may consist of particular sentences or particular entities belonging to those passages.
Hop: Each reasoning step of the reasoning chain can be termed as a hop. Furthermore, some
commonsense knowledge might additionally be required to perform a reasoning step from one
context (i.e., a document, table, etc.) to another. In that case, the commonsense reasoning can
also be considered as a hop. The definition provided here does not consider reasoning hops over
2In case of multiple correct answers to𝑞, Eq. 1 allows𝑓 to output any𝑎 that answers𝑞, which is the case for datasets like
SQuAD [115, 116]. However, some applications may require𝑓 to output all correct answers [99] when multiple correct
answers exist.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 6]]
111:6 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
external/commonsense knowledge although it can be accommodated by allowing 𝑃𝑞⊆ 𝐶∪𝑄,
where𝑄 is the external/commonsense knowledge base. However, we omit this for simplicity.
As mentioned in the introduction, many recent works focus on explainable MHQA to ensure
the accountability and interpretability of the models while answering multi-hop questions. Formally,
explainable MHQA is the setting of MHQA that requires𝑓 to output the reasoning chain𝑃′
𝑞 (as an
explanation for the answer) along with the answer,𝑎. The set of ’facts’ in the reasoning chain are
often referred to as supporting facts ([173]).
The given definition is generic and can be extended to accommodate multiple variations of
MHQA, some of which are listed below. Note that the given list is not comprehensive and the
proposed definition of MHQA may be extended with new variations.
• MHQA via fact composition:𝐶𝑖 represents independent facts.
• MHQA over long documents: QA over long documents can be considered multi-hop if the
question requires the model to aggregate information across different sections, passages or
sentences of the same document [ 71, 138]. Here, each𝐶𝑖 is a section/passage in the same
document.
• MHQA over multiple text documents: Each𝐶𝑖 is an independent document.
• Multiple choice MHQA: For each question, there is a small set of possible answers given
beforehand. Thus,A in Eq. 1 is dependent on𝑞,A =A(𝑞).
• Open Domain vs Closed Domain MHQA: In the open domain setting, the set of contexts
relevant to the question,𝐶 spans the entire corpus i.e.,𝐶 = C whereas in the closed domain
setting,𝐶, the input to the model along with the question𝑞, is a small subset of C and may
be different for each question i.e.,𝐶 =𝐶𝑞⊂ C. The closed domain setting guarantees that𝐶𝑞
is sufficient to answer𝑞 and might also contain noisy irrelevant passages. It is important to
note that the distinction between open-domain and closed-domain is regardless of the sizes
of𝐶, C, but is determined by the input of the task - whether each question is provided with
a specific subset of sufficient contexts or not. As we will see in Section 4, the open-domain
setting can be reduced to closed-domain by performing a preliminary retrieval over C.
• MHQA over Knowledge Bases/Knowledge Graphs: 3 C is a Knowledge Base (KB) or a
Knowledge Graph (KG) with𝐶𝑖 representing a triplet or a graph node.
• Visual MHQA:4 C is a set of images and/or videos (or equivalently, sequence of images).
• Conversational QA with clarifying questions: Conversational QA can be regarded as an
MHQA problem if answering the question requires the model to ask follow-up questions
to the user. In this task, the user asks a question and the model tries to answer it based on
some context. If the model cannot find the information necessary to answer the question,
it generates a follow-up question for the user and enquires the missing information. Here,
each follow-up question can be considered as a retrieval hop and figuring out the missing
information can be regarded as a reasoning hop [138].
• Temporal MHQA:𝐶𝑖 represents diverse temporal contexts such as time periods’ denoting
bursts in the temporal distribution of relevant documents, question’s time scope, time periods
indicated by temporal expressions extracted from documents’ contents [152, 153], or inferred
time of past events [155].
3For the scope of this paper, we do not consider QA over KB or KG since these have been extensively covered by Fu et al.
[43], Lan et al. [82].
4For the scope of this paper, we only consider text based QA.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 7]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:7
3 DATASETS
The previous section highlighted the different forms of the task which implies the existence of
multiple datasets that are unique and equally significant, and are suited to different variants of the
problem. In this section we aim to briefly summarize existing datasets and provide their comparison.
This section details on the process of dataset creation, their statistics, and comparison with existing
datasets, and is followed by our critique of these datasets. We believe that it makes sense to start
the discussion with existing datasets as this will provide necessary context and intuition of the
data for the following subsections devoted to methods which operate on top of these datasets.
3.1 Dataset creation
3.1.1 Challenges: Creating a dataset for multi-hop question answering is more challenging than
for a traditional (i.e., single hop) QA setup. The major challenges include:
• Contexts used for questions should form a valid and unambiguous reasoning chain. This
implies that a context used for a particular question should have some information overlap
or some kind of entailment relation with at least one of the other contexts present in the
expected reasoning chain [173].
• Since the questions should require reasoning over multiple contexts, the process of question
generation itself needs to somehow encapsulate information across those particular contexts.
• The creation process needs to ensure that the question can not be answered by using a
different single context. For instance, the question "Who was the president of United States in
the year in which World War II began? " requires two contexts containing "World War II began
in 1939." and "Franklin D. Roosevelt was the president of United States in 1939. " However, there
may be a separate context containing "Franklin D. Roosevelt, president of United States at the
start of World War II, was unwilling to... ". This challenge is more prevalent in the setting of
Open Domain QA.
Therefore, it becomes crucial to look at the methods adopted during creation of existing datasets,
along with their advantages and, drawbacks and possible ways to mitigate these. In general, the
dataset creation task involves 3 major steps:
(1) Generating reasoning chains
(2) Question generation by crowd-sourcing
(3) Automatic/manual filtering
3.1.2 Reasoning chain candidates. Methods for coming up with reasoning chains are highly
task and domain specific and thus, differ significantly for each dataset. Thus, we look at a few
datasets individually.
(i) HotpotQA [173]: HotpotQA contains only 2-hop questions formed using the first passages
of documents from the English Wikipedia dump5. Two passages are chosen as a reasoning
chain (termed candidate passage pair ) if:
• There exists an hyperlink from the first document to the second. The entity which forms the
hyperlink is termed as the bridge entity and the questions are termed as bridge questions.
• The entities for those passages belong to the same category (eg: Michael Jordan and Kobe
Bryant). These are specifically sampled from 42 manually created lists. Such pairs are used
for creating comparison questions.
(ii) HybridQA [21]: In HybridQA, the definition of a context can be either a passage or a table.
It is argued that using a table as context avoids the ambiguity of the questions that could arise
when using texts. To ensure at least two hops, the questions are restricted to have reasoning
5https://en.wikipedia.org/
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 8]]
111:8 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
chains containing at least one table and one text document. The tables are filtered from the
set of tables released in WikiTables [9], and the Wikipedia hyperlinks present in the cells of
the table are used to retrieve relevant passages. At most 12 sentences of the first passage of
each Wikipedia page are treated as the passages.
(iii) QAngaroo datasets [159] - WikiHop and MedHop: These datasets construct a bipartite
graph using a knowledge base with relation triplets and then perform a breadth first traversal
on it to get valid multi-hop reasoning chains. The bipartite graph has entities from the KB on
one side and the documents from the corpus on the other with the edges denoting whether
the entity is present in the document. The subject entity𝑠 in a triplet(𝑠,𝑟,𝑜) is chosen as the
starting point for the traversal and all the entities that have the same type as that of𝑜 are
the end points. All the intermediate end-points in a path are treated as the possible answer
candidates and all the documents traversed to reach the answer entity are the reasoning
chain candidates. To avoid ambiguous questions, any𝑜′ such that∃(𝑠,𝑟,𝑜 ′)∈ 𝐾𝐵 is ignored
during the traversal. Generated candidate chains and QA pairs are further filtered manually.
(iv) NarrativeQA [77]: The dataset is for answering multi-hop questions on long stories. To
ensure that the questions are indeed multi-hop and answering requires non localized reason-
ing, the annotators are asked to form questions using human-generated summaries of the
stories. The stories are collected from books from Project Gutenberg6, while movie scripts
are scraped from the web.
(v) OpenBookQA [97]: OpenBookQA requires question answering on the scientific domain
using a book (in simpler words, a collection) of scientific facts along-with a broad common
knowledge (large open-domain scientific sentences). The book and common knowledge are the
two contexts required to answer the questions in OpenBookQA. Book is collected by filtering
a subset of WorldTree corpus identified by Jansen et al. [64] where the common knowledge is
collected from a collection of 14M scientific facts across Wikipedia, ConceptNet and other
scientific corpor.
(vi) QASC [21]: QASC is also a dataset for two-hop QA using scientific facts. The process of
generating reasoning chains is very similar to that of OpenBookQA. The two contexts of
the reasoning chain are chosen from a set of good quality seed facts and a large corpus of
auxiliary facts, respectively.
(vii) MultiRC [71]: The purpose of this dataset is to create a multi-domain multi-hop questions.
Documents across various domains are selected from multiple datasets. Here, the multiple
contexts are part of the same passage and the task of candidate reasoning chain generation is
left to the annotators; each document is given to the annotators and they are asked to form
valid multi-hop reasoning questions.
3.1.3 Question generation: Generating multi-hop QA pairs requires accumulation of informa-
tion across different contexts which itself is an unsolved problem [ 54, 63, 72, 79, 102, 107, 119,
137, 176]. As discussed above, Welbl et al. [159] automatically generates questions using existing
KBs where WikiData and DrugBank [163] are used as the knowledge bases, and Wikipedia and
Medline7 are used as the document corpus. However, the question and answer types in the two
datasets are highly constrained, owing to the creation technique. For instance, the only question
type in the MedHop dataset is of the kind(𝑑𝑟𝑢𝑔 1,𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑠 _𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ, ?), where in the WikiHop dataset
we have(𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑚 1,𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑦, ?). Therefore, automatic generation using KBs is argued to result in
datasets limited by the incompleteness of entity relations and schema of the KB used [173, 179].
6https://www.gutenberg.org/
7https://www.nlm.nih.gov/medline/medline_overview.html
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 9]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:9
Furthermore, automating the generation of free-form text questions is known to be a challenging
task and requires substantial training data [45, 102, 106].
Consequently, recent datasets propose that the question creation step should be done using
human-intelligence. Since the task is not very straight-forward even for humans, existing works
have added comprehensive guidelines for creating questions. These annotation guidelines follow a
common pattern, with slight nuances, irrespective of the task. We aim to summarize the annotation
guidelines used by various datasets and hope that this could serve as a reference for the relevant
future endeavours. Based on the techniques adopted by the existing datasets, the common annotation
instructions and best-practices include:
i To ensure that the questions require multi-hop reasoning:
• Give examples of both positive and negative instances of what the task requires.
• Break down the question generation task into simpler steps to prevent mistakes.
• Use rule-based techniques to provide in-the-loop friendly hints and prevent the annotators
from submitting trivial incorrect samples.
• Use simple single-step IR or PLM (Pre-trained Language Models) based techniques to check
if the question submitted is answerable using a single context only.
• Ask annotators to submit the reasoning chain along with the question and answer.
• Ask a different set of annotators to answer the questions using only a single context.
• Ask a different set of annotators if the question requires multiple contexts to be answered.
ii To ensure that the questions are answerable:
• Ask the annotator to also provide the answer to the question.
• Prohibit the use of negation words in answer choices that can trivially fool baselines.
• Ask for questions with very specific answers.
• Ask a different set of annotators to answer the question and discard questions with signifi-
cant error rates.
iii To ensure that the questions and answers are formed well:
• Restrict the annotators to experts/native speakers of the intended language of the dataset.
• Ask different set of annotators to verify if the questions are grammatically well-formed.
• Place a limit on the length of the answer.
• Randomly shuffle answer choices to avoid biases.
iv To ensure that the questions are challenging to answer :
• Prohibit the annotator from copying spans of text from the input contexts.
• Ask the annotators to make the questions challenging.
• Ask the annotators to create confusing and irrelevant incorrect answer choices.
• Ask the annotators to consider high-level relations between entities, events rather than
localized relations.
However, crowd-sourced datasets also have severe limitations. Dua et al . [36] argue that these
datasets usually only present a partial picture of the underlying data distribution and are marred
by numerous biases, such as annotator bias [46], label bias [37, 55], survivorship bias [100, 146],
and ascertainment bias [67]. Furthermore, absence of adversarial contexts during training time
allows the models to learn shortcuts in reasoning and perform the task without doing multi-hop
reasoning.
3.1.4 Post-processing: The above-mentioned practices and instructions can not preclude all
human errors. Thus, a further manual or rule-based automatic screening is generally done to get
rid of these errors. For instance, Chen et al. [21] remove a question if 1) the answer cannot be found
from either table or passage, 2) the answer is longer than 20 tokens, and 3) if the answer passage is
easily retrieved using a single hop of TF-IDF retrieval. Khot et al. [72], Mihaylov et al. [97] remove
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 10]]
111:10 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
questions that the annotators are unable to answer correctly. Khashabi et al. [71] remove a question
if the annotators are able to answer it using only a single context. Welbl et al. [159] aim to resolve
the candidate frequency imbalance by sub-sampling the dataset to ensure that questions having
any particular answer candidate constitute not more than 0.1% of the dataset, and also by omitting
articles that are about the United States. They tackle the issue of document-answer correlation
by discarding the questions having any commonly occurring pair of a document and candidate
answer.
3.2 Existing datasets: statistics, comparisons and examples
Comparison of the popular datasets used for MHQA is shown in Table 2. Some of these datasets
have multiple settings which we describe below:
(i) HotpotQA test set has two settings i) Full-wiki setting which is open domain with the set of
contexts being the first passages of all Wikipedia pages, and ii) Distractor setting which is
closed domain with a set of 10 passages (2 gold + 8 distractors) provided with each question.
The 8 distractors are collected by using TF-IDF retriever with the question as the query.
The dataset also evaluates an auxiliary tasks of predicting supporting facts. These are the
sentences in the gold passages which were used by the annotator to create the question. Since
many of the comparison questions in the dataset are of yes/no type, many models also use
the answer type prediction as an auxiliary task. This involves a 3-way classification of the
answer being ’yes’/’no’/the extracted span.
The train set of HotpotQA is split into easy/medium/hard. Easy subset predominantly consists
of single-hop answerable questions (over 70%) whereas distinction between medium and
hard questions is determined by training multiple baselines and testing the answerability of
the questions. Although the dev and test set contain only the hard questions, authors show
that the easy questions are also useful while training the model.
(ii) QAngaroo datasets contain a masked version along with the original unmasked dataset
for avoiding the candidate frequency imbalance. For instance, in the MedHop dataset, some
drugs (such as Aspirin) interact with more drugs than others (such as Isotretinoin), which
can lead to candidate frequency imbalance. To mitigate this, any candidate expression is
randomly replaced by a unique placeholder token (e.g. “Mumbai is the most populous city in
MASK7). It is argued that doing this removes the answer frequency cues and also removes
statistical correlations between frequent answer strings and relevant contexts.
(iii) NarrativeQA question-answer pairs are created using the summaries of movies or books
whereas the model is asked to answer the question based on the original story (referred to as
the story version). Another somewhat less challenging task of answering questions by directly
using the summaries, referred to as the summary version is also provided.
3.3 Critiques and challenges
Even with carefully designed datasets it remains to be doubtful whether the datasets in fact require
the model to perform multi-step reasoning to conclude the answer. Min et al. [100] show that the
questions formed by compositions of two contexts (as used by many datasets) are not the same as
they do not generalize well to multi-hop questions generated in typical use cases. Consequently,
there have been multiple insightful methodologies proposed to test this aspect.
Chen and Durrett [17] design two baseline models to predict the sentence containing the answer
and constrain them to score each sentence from each context independently without looking at
other sentences. Thus, the models should ideally perform poorly when trying to answer multi-hop
questions. However, the performance of these baselines is overwhelmingly close to the SOTA than
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 11]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:11
Table 2. Comparison of MHQA datasets.C represents the set of all contexts present in the dataset whereas
𝐶 represents the set of contexts for a single question. In OD (Open Domain setting),𝐶 = C.
Context
granularity |C| Size #hops | C | Question Source Context
source Domain Ans. type
HotpotQA Passage |Wikipedia| 112,779 1/2/3 10 / OD𝑎 Wikipedia Wikipedia Generic Span
HybridQA Table, Tables: 13k 69611 2/3 1 table Wikitables, Wikitables, Generic SpanPassage Passages: 293k passages Wikipedia Wikipedia
NarrativeQA Sentence Books: 783
Movies: 789 46765 - 1 story Multiple𝑏 Multiple Fiction Generative
MultiRC Sentence 871 9872 2.37 1 passage Multiple𝑐 Multiple Generic MCQ
|A| : 5.44
Medhop Passage Medline 2508 - OD Drugbank Medline Medicine MCQ
|A| : 8.9
Wikihop Passage |Wikipedia| 51318 - OD Wikidata Wikipedia Generic MCQ
|A| :19.8
QASC Sentence Core: 928
Aux: 7672 9980 2 OD Core: WorldTree
Aux: [8] WorldTree Science MCQ
|A| : 8
OpenBookQA Sentence Core: 1326
Aux: 6000 5947 2 OD WorldTree WorldTree Science MCQ
|A| : 4
𝑎10 for distractor setting and OD for Full-wiki setting
𝑏 Summary: Wikipedia; Stories: Gutenberg; Movies: http://www.imsdb.com/, http://www.dailyscript.com/, http://www.
awesomefilm.com/
𝑐 News: CNN, WSJ, NYT; Wikipedia; Articles on society, law and justice; Articles on history and anthropology; Elementary
school science books; Stories: Gutenberg project, MCTest; Movies: CMU movie summary corpus
to a random classifier. This is observed more so for multiple choice MHQA datasets (WikiHop
and a multi-choice modification of HotpotQA) than for a span-based MHQA dataset (HotpotQA).
Furthermore, a no-context baseline that predicts the answer only be looking at answer candidates
performs almost as good as the baselines defined above even when the number of candidates is
increased significantly (refer to figure 3 in Chen and Durrett [17]). Thus, it is argued that multiple
choice questions are easier to hack while testing and less helpful while training when compared to
the span based questions.
Min et al. [100] train a single-paragraph BERT model [70] that achieves comparable performance
to the state-of-the-art on the distractor setting, while it lags behind on the open-domain setting
indicating that the open-domain setting is more challenging for a single-hop model and is worthy
of future study. To further verify the hypothesis that the distractor setting is majorly single-hop
solvable, human evaluation is performed. Specifically humans achieve accuracy of 87.37 F1 when
using all the ten input paragraphs and 82.06 when one of the gold paragraphs is missing. In
order to improve the quality of these distractors, an adversarial set of distractors is collected by
training a single-hop BERT model and picking the top scoring incorrect paragraphs. Although, the
performance of the single-hop model drops significantly, it is recovered after fine-tuning the model
on these distractors.
Another possible way to improve the quality of distractors is to add a large number of such
distractors. However, it is observed that even with 500 distractors, the single hop model performance
is still significant. For the open domain setting, the performance goes down significantly indicating
the challenging nature of open-domain MHQA.
On manual analysis of single-hop solvable questions, it is found that 35% of the questions in the
HotpotQA dataset are solvable only by matching the entity type. These questions would require
multi-hop reasoning in the open-domain setting. However, other 26% of the questions are single-
hop solvable even in the open-domain setting. These are questions whose answers can be derived
by finding an entity that uniquely satisfies two properties (intersection-type questions) but a unique
answer can also be found by using only one of these properties. Another 8% of the questions are
non-compositional single-hop and only the remaining 27% require multi-hop reasoning.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 12]]
111:12 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
Similarly, Min et al. [102] split the HotpotQA dev set into single-hop solvable (3426) and single-
hop non-solvable (3979) questions.
Das et al. [28] make a similar conclusion by observing that 1184 (20%) of the question have the
answer span mentioned in both of the supporting passages and the answer can be extracted by
only considering one of them.
Xiong et al. [167] conduct an experiment that compares a QA model that has access to all the
supporting passages in HotpotQA, to another model that has access only to the answer (or the
second hop) passage and observe that the model with full access only gives a marginal improvement
from 49.43 EM to 50.96 EM.
Trivedi et al. [145] find that more than 60% of the dev questions in MultiRC have at least one
adjacent relevant sentence pair making the multi-hop reasoning very easy.
Information 
Retrieval
Module
Reasoning
Module
Answering 
Module
Information 
Retrieval
Module
Reasoning
Module
Answering 
Module
(a) Type-I:𝑅𝑒𝑡𝑟𝐼𝑡𝑟 ->𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑠𝐼𝑡𝑟 ->𝐴𝑛𝑠 (b) Type-II:(𝑅𝑒𝑡𝑟 ->𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑠)𝐼𝑡𝑟 ->𝐴𝑛𝑠
Information 
Retrieval
Module
Reasoning
Module
Answering 
Module
Information 
Retrieval
Module
Reasoning
Module
Answering 
Module
(c) Type-III:𝑅𝑒𝑡𝑟𝐼𝑡𝑟 ->(𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑠->𝐴𝑛𝑠)𝐼𝑡𝑟 (d) Type-IV:(𝑅𝑒𝑡𝑟 ->𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑠->𝐴𝑛𝑠)𝐼𝑡𝑟
Fig. 2. The four types of architectures used for MHQA. A self loop at a module indicates that that
module is independent of the succeeding modules whereas an incoming connection from a succeeding
module represents some kind of feedback from that block. a) The IR and reasoning modules perform multiple
hops independent of each other as well as of the answering module. b) At each hop, the IR module sends
its output to the reasoning module which then gives feedback to the IR module. Answering module then
predicts the answer in a single step. c) IR module first iteratively retrieves all the relevant documents for all
the hops. The reasoning module performs a hop and sends the output to the answering module. Answering
module either answers the question or sends feedback to the reasoning module asking for another hop of
reasoning. d) At each hop, the IR module sends its output to the reasoning module which further sends its
output to the answering module. The answering module either predicts a final answer or provides feedback
to the IR module indicating that some required information is missing.
4 OVERVIEW OF METHODS
As discussed in Section 2, a large number of works divide the task of MHQA into two steps, a retrieval
(IR) step that extracts all the relevant contexts from the corpus and a reading comprehension (MRC)
step that reads the resulting contexts to find the answer. In general, the existing works have three
basic units - Retriever, Reasoner (or Reader) and Answer Predictor8. A coarse level classification of
methods can be how these units interact with each other. One way is to complete the task of the
previous unit before moving to the next one and the other is to perform two or three of the tasks
in a single iteration and repeat it for the corresponding hops. Thus, there are four possibilities that
8Although initial works have a single module for reasoning as well as answer prediction, more recent works recommend
further segregating these two as different modules. Therefore, we consider these as separate modules in our discussion.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 13]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:13
arise by considering the multi-step nature of the retrieval and reasoning modules. These four types
of models are shown in Figure 2.
A few models retrieve important sentences or entities from the contexts as an intermediate step
for reasoning. Since the granularity of the context is sentences for some datasets like MultiRC and
OpenBookQA, it can be difficult to determine what constitutes reasoning and what constitutes
retrieving. To avoid such confusion, we refer back to our definition of the task in Section 2. If the
granularity of the output of a step is the same as the granularity of the context, we refer to that step
as part of the retrieval process. If the granularity is lower then we call it as reasoning. Since most of
the existing works focus extensively on the first two units, we begin by describing the techniques
used for these units, first, sequentially and then, iteratively. We then describe the answer prediction
module followed by some auxiliary tasks in practice.
Open 
domain 
Input
(Set of all 
contexts)
One
Pass
Iterative
Retrieved 
Contexts 
/
Closed 
domain Input
Re-ranking
Module
Preliminary retrieval Final retrieval
Reading 
Comprehension 
Module
Filtered
Contexts
Concatenation
Fig. 3. Retrieval Module. The process of retrieval can be decomposed into two steps: a) Preliminary retrieval
which is a quick and high recall step to retrieve all the relevant context from the set of all contexts in the
open domain setting. It can be performed either as a single pass or iteratively. b) Final retrieval which is a
more thorough step to filter out all the irrelevant contexts. Because of a smaller number of input contexts,
more complex re-ranking models can be used at this step. Some models directly pass the concatenation of
the input documents to the reasoning module. Note that the closed domain setting of MHQA eliminates the
need for preliminary retrieval.
4.1 Retrieval
The retrieval step is a bottleneck when the set of available contexts for a question is large and
it becomes a particularly challenging task in case of Open Domain QA. Intuitively, multi-hop
retrieval is significantly more challenging than a single-step retrieval since any retrieval error in
a hop is accumulated with each subsequent hop of retrieval and leads to a well known problem
of semantic drift [170]. Das et al. [28] verify the hypothesis by running a simple BM25 on ’easy’
and ’hard’ subsets of HotpotQA (which contain predominantly single-hop and multi-hop questions
respectively) to find that the accuracy drops from 53.7% on the easy subset to 25.9% on the hard
subset. Similarly, Feldman and El-Yaniv [41] run a TF-IDF retriever and find that although, it
succeeds in retrieving at least one of the gold passage within top 32 passages for more than 90%
questions, it often fails at retrieving both the gold passages.
The existing methods for retrieval can be broadly classified into two categories as shown in
Figure 3, open domain retrieval where the model has to search through the entire context setC,
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 14]]
111:14 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
and closed domain retrieval where the model is provided with a smaller set of relevant (and noisy)
contexts𝐶⊂C along with the question𝑞. Most of the techniques working in the open domain
setting use a two step strategy where the first step (referred as preliminary retrieval) is a fast and
high recall filtering to get an initial set of relevant contexts. The second step (referred as final
retrieval) is then basically reduced to the closed domain setting where more complex techniques
can be used to further remove the noisy contexts.
4.1.1 Preliminary Retrieval. The first step of the open domain retrieval (referred to preliminary
retrieval from hereon) can be a single shot retrieval as done in single hop question answering i.e.,
the model attempts to extract all the relevant contexts in a single retrieval step. We further classify
this step into two categories, one step and iterative retrieval.
Single-pass approach - (2 works) Intuitively, this strategy works well for the 2-hop case where
the candidate answers are provided. For more than two hops, the query to ranking algorithms such
as BM25 could miss the information necessary to capture the terms relevant to the intermediate
hop. Similarly, if the candidate answers are not provided, this strategy would not capture the second
hop well [34]. To validate this hypothesis, [34, 41] use a simple BM25 with the original question as
the query to evaluate the second hop paragraph recall on HotpotQA and find that the results are
poor.
• Yadav et al. [169] create multiple queries by appending the question with each candidate
answers. BM25 is used on these queries to extract top𝑛(= 20) contexts (sentences in case of
the MultiRC dataset).
• Chen et al. [21] parse the passages linked to each cell in the given table and retrieve all the
cells relevant to the question.
Iterative approach - (9 works) Most of the existing techniques, therefore, use a multi-step
retrieval. These methods can be further classified into two subcategories:
Using entity links/hyperlinks : Das et al . [28] argue that query reformulation methods do not
necessarily use the information about entities present in the evidence as they might not be the most
frequent/ salient terms in it. Many existing works use entity mentions in the first hop retrieval to
find Wikipedia passages with titles containing any of these entities. This is an efficient technique
since the entities can be extracted as part of the pre-processing step. This technique is particularly
effective for HotpotQA since the creation process of the HotpotQA uses the Wikipedia paragraph
for a bridge entity as the second hop context. However, this also indicates a bias of dataset design
when building models [ 40]. Trying to imitate (or benefit from the knowledge of) the creation
process of some dataset while building the models for this dataset can improve accuracy on that
dataset but is not guaranteed to perform well on the other datasets. Das et al . [28] also suggest
not to use off-the-shelf entity linker as they are usually trained on Wikipedia and can lead to data
leakage.
• Das et al. [28] use BM25 for the first hop retrieval and then retrieve Wikipedia paragraphs for
each mentioned entity. Since HotpotQA is known to contain both single-hop and multi-hop
questions, a self-link is added for each entity retrieved in the first hop to deal with single hop
questions.
• Xiong et al. [167] use a Hybrid TF-IDF + BM25 for the first hop retrieval to get 10 documents.
Span prediction and external entity linking is used to get the bridge entities from the first
hop passages. A supervised re-ranker gives top 10 entities and Wikipedia passages for these
entities are used as the second hop passages. A span loss is added for predicting answer
passage title entities as an auxiliary task.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 15]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:15
• Ding et al. [34], Fang et al. [40] retrieve Wikipedia passages whose titles contain an entity
mentioned in the question as the first hop passages. Hyperlinks from these passages are used
to get the second hop passages.
• Shao et al. [129] extract key words and match them with the paragraphs title and select top
𝑁1 paragraph with best TF-IDF scores. Apart from these, top𝑁2 paragraphs with best TF-IDF
scores are added. For the second hop, add all the paragraphs having hyperlinks from and
hyperlinks to the first hop paragraphs.
Query reformulation: Hidden space
• Feldman and El-Yaniv [41] first encode the question using a Bi-GRU layer on contextualized
ELMo [111] embeddings and retrieve all the relevant passages using MIPS. To reduce the
search space for MIPS, a TF-IDF based retriever [ 16] is employed to get top 𝑛𝑖 passages.
A supervised re-ranker scores the paragraphs and the each of top k paragraphs is used to
modify the question hidden representation to give k new search vectors for the next step.
The reformulation module using bi-directional attention [127] on the paragraph and question
encodings followed by a Linear layer with ReLU activation. A residual connection is added
with this output being passed to a Bi-GRU layer followed by another linear layer with ReLU
activation. Max pooling is applied to the residual output to give the updated query vector. At
every step, top k paragraphs are selected by the re-ranker. The paragraph encoding being
independent of the question allows the encodings to be pre-computed for an efficient retrieval
during training and inference.
Query reformulation: Text space Some methods reformulate the question by adding to, modifying
or re-weighting the text of the question. Changing the questions in the text space allows the
intermediate questions to be interpretable.
• Yadav et al. [170] concatenate the question with each answer candidate to obtain initial
queries. Justification sentences are retrieved using the unsupervised alignment method of
Yadav et al. [168] which uses GloVe embeddings [110]. They compute a matrix storing the
cosine similarity of embeddings of the query tokens with the sentence tokens. Max pooling
across sentence tokens is applied to get the most similar tokens for each query token. Dot
product between this vector and a vector containing the IDF values of the query tokens is
calculated to produce the overall alignment score. For MultiRC, these are selected from the
sentences in all the relevant paragraphs. For QASC, relevant sentences are retrieved using
heuristic IR approaches. The reformulation process only keeps the uncovered tokens and
if the number of such tokens is <𝑇(= 2− 4), new tokens are added from the previously
retrieved sentences. The process is repeated until either a) no new query tokens are retrieved
or b) all tokens are discovered. 10.7% improvement is observed when the tokens are identified
using soft matching over GloVe embeddings.
• Zhang et al. [181] use TF-IDF with the question to get the first hop paragraphs. For each
subsequent hop, the ALBERT based reader module is used as a span extractor on the previously
retrieved documents to extract the text relevant to the question. The extracted span is
concatenated with the query of the previous step for performing the next hop of retrieval.
This is repeated until the reader module finds an answer or a maximum number of hops is
reached.
• Qi et al. [112] follow a similar approach to Zhang et al. [181] with DrQA’s Document Reader
model used as the span extractor. During training, heuristics are used to find the oracle query.
• Yadav et al. [171] retrieve k justification sentences using alignment technique similar to
Yadav et al. [170]. The question𝑄, is concatenated with each retrieved justification𝑞𝑘, and
the token weights are assigned as: For each token 𝑡 in original question, if 𝑞𝑘 contains𝑡,
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 16]]
111:16 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
weight for𝑡 is 1, else it is 2. All terms in𝑞𝑘 have a weight of 1. This is expected to result a in
higher coverage. The queries are used for second hop retrieval to get a final set of𝑁 contexts.
Then,  𝑁
𝑝
 evidence chains are generated and each evidence set is ranked by how many query
terms are included (coverage) and top𝑛 are picked for the supervised reranking.
• Malon and Bai [95] propose generating text based free-form follow-up questions for per-
forming iterative retrieval. An IR model (BM25) retrieves the set of relevant contexts using
the question. A BERT based three-way controller module predicts whether each context
contains final answer, contains intermediate information or is irrelevant. A QG model is used
for generating a follow up question for each passage that contains intermediate information.
BERT is used for getting the answers from contexts containing the final answer. Irrelevant
passages are ignored. The QG model by Zhao et al. [182] is trained on the reverse SQuAD. The
controller model is trained with cross-entropy loss for ternary classification on the ground
truth triplets.
Sidiropoulos et al. [130] evaluate the performance of the two iterative retrieval approaches by
evaluating the performance on each of the two hops on HotpotQA dataset. It is argued that
entity based retrieval is limited by the availability of such hyperlinks and passages whereas the
reformulation approach is limited by the performance of lexical term-based retrieval. They observe
that while BM25 followed by BERT based reranking performs well on the first hop, it fails on the
second hop retrieval (evaluated as the ability to retrieve second passage given the first passage).
Similarly, although the model by Xiong et al. [166] has the best overall performance, it has scope of
improvement when evaluated for the second hop retrieval. Hence, a hybrid technique is proposed
where the re-rank model is used for the first hop and a single-hop dense passage retrieval model
[131] is used for the second hop. Results show that the hybrid technique outperforms the existing
techniques which calls for further study in this direction.
4.1.2 Final retrieval. (Re-ranking)
Concatenating/union Some of the methods do not filter the input contexts and directly pass a
union or concatenation of the contexts to the reasoning model.
• Yadav et al. [170] maintain N-parallel reasoning chains in the preliminary retrieval step and
a union of these chains is passed to the answer prediction module.
• Ding et al. [34], Yadav et al. [169] do not filter the passages and directly perform reasoning
at a lower granularity.
Supervised re-ranking Majority of the methods use a supervised module to score and rank
the input contexts, and then use some criterion to filter the less relevant documents before passing
to the answer prediction module.
• Feldman and El-Yaniv[41] use a Linear layer with sigmoid activation to get a relevance score
of each sentence in a paragraph with the question. Max pooling across all sentences is applied
to give a relevance score and top-k most relevant paragraphs are picked. Max pooling allows
only one of the sentences in a paragraph to be relevant to the question with a high score.
• Das et al. [28] use BERT to compute query-aware embeddings for every pair of the first hop
and second hop paragraph. The two paragraphs are concatenated and fed to 2-layer Neural
Network to get a score. Top𝑘 pairs are passed to the reader module.
• Xiong et al. [167] use a bi-LSTM layer [59] to predict relevance of each second hop passage
with the question.
• Fang et al. [40] use a RoBERTa encoder [92] followed by a fine tuning layer to get the top N
paragraphs.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 17]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:17
• Zhang et al. [181]pass the node (document) representations to a binary classifier for predicting
its relevance and keep the𝑘 highest scoring documents.
• Yadav et al. [171] use RoBERTa [92] for reranking trained to predict the F-1 score of evidence
chain.
• Zhang et al. [179] and 20 concatenate paragraphs with the question and feed it to a BERT
followed by a binary classifier and keep N(=3) paragraphs with the highest scores. Qiu
et al. [113] follows a similar approach but sets a threshold to retrieve variable number of
paragraphs.
• Shao et al. [129] use the gated memory flow network inspired by the Neural Turing Machine
[51] to model the probability of a paragraph being the next context in the reasoning chain,
conditioned on the question and the previous paragraphs in the reasoning chain. At every
time step𝑡 BERT is used to compute the question aware embeddings of the paragraphs,𝑥𝑡. A
KVMemNN architecture models the memory as a set of key-value pairs. The model passes
the key vectors and 𝑥𝑡 to linear layers and applies Softmax to the output of 𝑊𝑥𝑥𝑡·𝑊𝑘𝑘𝑖.
The output after Softmax multiplied with another matrix𝑊𝑣 is then used as weights while
summing the value vectors𝑣𝑖 to give the readout vector𝑜𝑡. The memory reading process
is similar to computing self-attention [148] and the authors concatenate the outputs after
computing𝑜𝑡 for theℎ attention heads.𝑜𝑡 and𝑥𝑡 are passed to another linear layer with tanh
and sigmoid activation to give the relevance score𝑠𝑡.𝑥𝑡 is written to the memory if𝑠𝑡 >𝑔𝑎𝑡𝑒
where𝑔𝑎𝑡𝑒 is a hyper-parameter. Hard negative examples are generated by training a BERT
based model to predict the relevance score𝑠𝑡 and choosing the top-8 of the non-evidence
paragraphs.
• Dua et al. [36] propose generative context selection that learns to predict how the question
would have been formed. Mathematically, the model tries to learn𝑝(𝑎,𝑞|𝐶) instead of𝑝(𝑎|𝑞,𝐶)
(as in discriminative models). This probability is modeled as
𝑝(𝑎,𝑞|𝐶) =
∑︁
𝑐𝑖𝑗
𝑝(𝑎|𝑞,𝑐𝑖𝑗)· 𝑝(𝑞|𝑐𝑖𝑗)· 𝑝(𝑐𝑖𝑗|𝐶) (5)
where𝑝(𝑐𝑖𝑗|𝐶) is the prior that computes compatibility between any two contexts,𝑝(𝑞|𝑐𝑖𝑗)
is the question generation model that predicts the probability of𝑞 being formed from the
given contexts, and𝑝(𝑎|𝑞,𝑐𝑖𝑗) is the standard answering model. During inference, the model
retrieves the contexts as𝑐∗
𝑖𝑗 =𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑚𝑎𝑥𝑐𝑖𝑗𝑝(𝑞|𝑐𝑖𝑗)· 𝑝(𝑐𝑖𝑗|𝐶). To model these probabilities, a
pre-trained T5 is used for obtaining the contextual embeddings. The prior and generative are
trained together. Concatenation of every pair of contexts is passed to an encoder and a Pointer
Generator Network (PGN) [126] decoder is used to predict the question. The training objective
is to increase the likelihood of the question for gold context pairs and the unlikelihood [160]
for a sample set of negative context pairs. T5 is used for answering using the best pair of
contexts. The advantage of using a generative model is that it avoids the annotator biases in
the dataset. This hypothesis is tested by running the model on the adversarial set of questions
formed by Tu et al . [146]. A multi-label sentence classifier 𝑝(𝑠|𝑞,𝐶) that selects relevant
sentences is found to have a better performance but at the same time, is more biased.
• Chen et al. [21] feed each cell along with its neighboring cells to the cell encoder to obtain
their representations. The representations are aggregated and further fed to a feed-forward
neural network to obtain a score.
• Sun et al. [138] perform the retrieval in two steps where the first step retrieves a paragraph,
and the second step retrieves a sentence from these paragraphs. A weighted sum of paragraph
and sentence retrieval scores is computed to find the best retrieved sentence. The retrieval
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 18]]
111:18 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
score of the paragraph retrieved from the first hop is broadcast to the sentences in the
paragraphs. The best retrieved sentence fed to BERT-large for extractive QA.
Unsupervised re-ranking Yadav et al. [169, 170] experimentally verify that using a supervised
re-ranking method has an implied shortcoming of resulting in a domain dependent performance.
The performance for each domain depends on the portion of training data belonging to that domain.
Thus, it is attempted to propose unsupervised re-ranking techniques that can lead to similar level
of quality as supervised re-ranking.
• Yadav et al. [169] consider all  𝑛
𝑘
(𝑘∈[ 2, 5]) reasoning chains formed by the 𝑛 retrieved
passages and use a simple formula to compute the scores. They define Relevance as the
average BM25 scores of the chain, Overlap as the word overlap between each sentence pair
in the chain and Coverage as the product of word overlap of sentence with the question and
with the answer. The final score is given by 𝑅·𝐶
𝑂 . By experiments,𝑘 = 3, 4 are found to be the
best values with the justification that getting two correct retrieved passages in a chain of size
two is tough while a chain of size 5 will suffer from noise.
• Chen et al. [21] retrieve cells from the table in the HybridQA dataset in an unsupervised
manner. A cell is selected if its value is either mentioned in the question, or is min/max of
the corresponding column. A cell are also added if it hyperlinks to one of the passages that
are retrieved by a TF-IDF retriever.
Another independent way of classifying the re-ranking approaches is based on whether the
module scores each retrieved context independently or together as constituents of a possible
reasoning chain. We call the two categories of methods Context re-ranking and Chain re-
ranking respectively. Table 6.1.1 lists the methods belonging to the two categories. Yadav et al.
[169] show that evaluating the reasoning chain as a whole leads to better performance than
evaluating each passage independently.
4.2 Reading Comprehension
4.2.1 Graph-based Techniques. - 8 works
The general flow of the graph based methods is as follows: A graph of one or more types of nodes
(entity, sentence, paragraph, document nodes, etc.) is constructed and edges are added based on
some lexical heuristics. Contextual encodings of the nodes are passed to one or more layers of a
Graph Neural Network [75] or a Graph Attention network [150] or a Graph Convolutional Network
[76]. These layers update the representation of each node using the representation of each of its
neighbouring nodes. In this way, after𝑛 such layers, nodes separated by a path of≤𝑛 edges have
shared information with each other. Therefore, each layer is expected to perform one hop of the
reasoning process. Some methods slightly deviate from the proposed general flow. We describe
these difference below along with the other details.
• Chen et al . [21] take the retrieved cells from the previous stage and then decide which
neighboring cell to hop to.
• Ding et al. [34]build an entity graph by starting with the entities extracted during the retrieval
process. For each node, a BERT model takes its representation along with the question and
a retrieved passage and extracts entities from the paragraph to be added to the graph. The
process is repeated until either a) no new nodes can be added or b) a maximum number of
nodes are extracted. Sentences containing the extracted entities are considered as ’clues’ for
the respective entities. Clues are then used for updating the node representations using a
Graph Neural Network (GNN). Clues are also used later for the auxiliary task of supporting
facts prediction.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 19]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:19
• Fang et al. [40] propose constructing a hierarchical graph network with four types of nodes
that represent question text, relevant paragraphs, sentences in these paragraphs and entities
in these sentences. Bidirectional edges are introduced between the first hop source sentences
and second hop target paragraphs. Edges are also introduced between paragraph and its
sentences; sentence and the entities it contains; question and the entities it contains; between
all paragraphs; between each sentence and its previous and next sentences. RoBERTa is used
for encoding and a bi-attention and a Bi-LSTM layer are used for getting initial contextualized
representations of the nodes. Graph Attention Network (GAT) [ 150] is applied over the
hierarchical graph and the updated representations are merged with the original contextual
representations using a gated attention mechanism. The merged representations are passed
to the answer prediction module. The gated merging is supposed to be effective for dealing
with smaller number of hops.
• Zhang et al. [181] construct a graph of documents and add edges if the documents have a
shared entity. Question aware embeddings of the document are generated by Albert and used
as initial node representations. GAT is used to update the representations of each shared
entity. To update the representations of non-entity tokens, they are fed to a transformer along
with the updated representations for multi-document fusion. The updated representations
are passed to the answer prediction module.
• Cao et al. [15] make entity graph of all entity mentions of the answer candidate in supporting
documents. Cross-document edges are added between the mentions about the same entity and
within-document edges are added between every node pair belonging to the same document.
For initial representations, GloVe and ELMo are used for token-level and contextualized
embeddings respectively. Contextualized embeddings are crucial since graph nodes only
contain entity tokens. To deal with entities containing multiple words, average is taken over
their embeddings. The two embeddings are passed to a 1 layer NN (replaced by Bi-LSTM for
encoding the question) for getting the initial node representations which are concatenated
with the NER and POS embeddings before feeding to a GCN layer.
• Thayaparan et al. [142] compute similarity between GloVe embeddings of each word of the
sentence with each word of the query and take the mean among m(=5) closest sentence
words to get a sentence score and select top k(=25 or 30) sentences. A graph containing
sentence nodes and document nodes is created with only the selected sentences. Edges are
added between documents if they have a shared entity and between a paragraph and all
its sentences. Adding edges among sentences adds complexity without much improvement.
Initial representation of a node is computed by passing the matrix of GloVe embeddings
of the entities contained in the sentence or paragraph to a bi-linear attention [74] layer on
nodes and query. To compress the representations into fixed size, self-attention is used. T(=3)
layers of Gated Graph Neural Network is used to update the representations.
• De Cao et al. [30] create an entity graph similar to Cao et al. [15] but have some additional
edge types: co-reference edges: between co-reference mentions of the same entity (separate
type since these are less reliable) and complement edges which signify no connection between
the two nodes. Co-reference edges is a separate edge type since these are less reliable owing to
the error in the co-reference system. These are not required for the masked version. The query
representations are formed by passing ELMo [111] to a Bidirectional RNN [118]. Initial query
dependent node representations are formed by passing the ELMo contextual embeddings to a
feed forward network. L layers of a gated relational-GCN [123] R-GCN, a version of GCN are
applied to get the final representations which are passed to the prediction module. Relational-
GCN is able to accommodate different edge types by using different weight matrices for the
neighbouring nodes connected by different edge types. An ablation experiments verifies that,
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 20]]
111:20 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
although useful, co-reference edges have the least contribution to performance. Another
experiment tries to predict the edge type by training a model but the performance is poor.
• Qiu et al. [113] construct an entity graph and add edges between entities with the same
mention text, between entities belonging to the same sentence, and between each entity in a
paragraph and each entity in its title. Question and contexts are concatenated and passed
to a BERT followed by a bi-attention layer to get the contextual node representations. The
following four steps are performed iteratively: 1) Mean-max pooling over tokens in an entity
mention to update the entity embeddings. 2) Attention between query and entity is used
to compute the mask weights which are multiplied to the entity representations before
feeding to a GAT. 3) Updated entity representations are concatenated to entity tokens and
representations of all tokens are updated using an LSTM layer. 4) Bi-directional attention
between query and entity representations is used to update the query representation. Updating
embeddings of each token is necessary since the answer might not be an entity.
• Zhang et al. [179]create two different graphs: a) sentence graph with edges between sentences
belonging to the same paragraph and between sentences that share an entity. b) entity graph
with edges between entities appearing in the same sentence, between different mentions
of same entities and between each entity in the paragraph to each entity in its title. The
intuition is that humans first focus on question-related paragraphs, then sentences, and
then the important words. BERT word embeddings are passed to a bidirectional attention
layer to get the contextual embedding. Propose a novel similarity matrix for the layer. Self
attention is applied to the query and query aware node embeddings are passed to a GAT.
Self attention is applied on the sentence node representations and the output is appended by
the representation of each word in the sentence. An LSTM is applied to fuse the output of 2
graphs.
• Huang and Yang [61] form a sentence graph and add an edge between sentences𝑠𝑖 and𝑠𝑗
with the weight𝑤𝑖𝑗 given by:
𝑤𝑖𝑗 =
(
1
1+𝑒−𝑛+𝐾1 𝑠𝑖 and𝑠𝑗 have𝑛 > 0 shared entities
1
1+𝑒𝑑+𝐾2 𝑠𝑖 and𝑠𝑗 belong to the same paragraph separated by𝑑 sentences. (6)
These weights allow the model to deal with the edge types in a novel way. The concatenated
paragraphs along with the question are fed to a BERT followed by a bi-attention layer. Sen-
tence representations are obtained by extracting token level embeddings from the paragraph
encoding and a weighted addition of token embeddings where the weights are calculated
using a two layer MLP (Multi Layer Perceptron). Most methods using GNN perform message
passing for each node in parallel. This requires the representation of nodes to be updated
exactly𝐿 times where𝐿 needs to be specified as a hyper-parameter. If𝐿 is large, it leads to
over smoothing. If it is too small, it inhibits long-path reasoning. Moreover, this algorithm
performs un-necessary updates leading to inefficiency. Thus, a novel message passing algo-
rithm is proposed which performs a BFS starting from the question and passing the messages
through every edge that is visited in the process.
Thayaparan et al. [142] argue that the advantage of using graph-structured representations lies
in reducing the inference steps necessary to combine multiple pieces of information related in
a path-like manner. The fact that the required graphs (or some parts of it) can be created offline
gives it a computational advantage. However, graph structure also has certain limitation [ 129],
particularly for comparison type questions in HotpotQA where the evidence paragraphs about the
two entities are independent. Many of the techniques assume that the relation between nodes is
directional which may not always be the case. For gated GNNs, computational efficiency as well as
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 21]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:21
the learning ability of the model degrades with the increasing number of nodes and edge types in
the graph used.
While the graph structure is prevalent for multi-hop reasoning, Shao et al. [128] argue that it is
not necessary and that graph attention can be considered as a special case of self-attention. Treating
Qiu et al. [113] as the baseline, results are compared after removing the graph fusion module. It
is observed that the performance gained by using the graph structure can be easily compensated
for by fine-tuning the BERT based encoder. While the graph structure enables the model to focus
only on adjacent nodes, a model without any prior knowledge can still learn this behaviour. This is
verified by further experiments. When the graph fusion module is replaced by self-attention layers
the results are very similar whereas replacing it by a transformer leads to a significant improvement.
Graph attention reduces to self-attention for a fully connected graph making it a special case of
self-attention. Attention patterns are visualized and observed similar to Kovaleva et al. [78]. It is
found that the pre-trained transformers are able to capture several types of attention patterns: a)
between entities, b) between co-referenced entities, c) between an entity and its attribute, and d)
between an entity and a sentence. Depending on the structure of the graph, these patterns may or
may not be covered by graph attention. Therefore, self-attention can be said to be more general
and flexible than graph attention.
4.2.2 Question Decomposition Techniques. - 3 works The key idea is to decompose the multi-hop
question into multiple single hop questions and use a single-hop QA model to answer each of
the questions. This approach is particularly effective for questions like the bridge questions in
HotpotQA that are constructed using a bridge entity. These questions can be easily decomposed into
two sub-questions by finding the bridge entity. While this technique has been used effectively for
2-hop and binary comparison questions, it is yet to be tested against questions requiring more than
2 hops of reasoning. This technique also exploits the knowledge about the structure of question
and thus, is difficult to adapt when the structure of the questions can be flexible.
• Min et al. [102] use the hypothesis that each sub-question can be formed from a multi-hop
question by copying and lightly editing a key span from it. Questions in HotpotQA are
categorized into four categories: bridge (47%), comparison (22%), intersection (23%)(questions
asking for an entity that satisfy multiple properties) and others (8%). Editing methods are
proposed to be dependent on the question type for the first three categories. Question text is
segmented into several spans by training a pointer network that predicts𝑝𝑖𝑗 , the probability of
the𝑖𝑡ℎ word to be the𝑗𝑡ℎ index to split the question. 400 annotations are manually generated
for training. For each question, three such indices for bridge questions, two indices for
intersection and four indices for comparison questions are predicted by maximizing the
joint probability of the decomposition. These spans are modified slightly depending on
the reasoning type. Any single-hop QA model can be used for answering each single hop
question. Concatenation of the question, the reasoning type, the answer, and the evidence is
encoded using BERT and scored using 1 layer feed forward NN with sigmoid activation. The
reasoning type is decided as the one resulting in the maximum score. An alternative way
where the reasoning type is predicted before decomposing and answering is tried and found
to be giving poor results. To verify the original hypothesis, same technique is tested with
span-based questions replaced by human written questions. There is a little difference in
model performance indicating that the span-based sub-questions are as effective as free-form
sub-questions.
• Cao and Liu [14] break down the task of MHQA into two components: Coarse grained
decomposition and Fine grained interaction. The decomposition module is responsible for
making the high dimensional vector distribution of entity nouns or pronouns more inclined
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 22]]
111:22 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
to the intermediate answer to the question. The fine grained interaction module is a modified
bidirectional attention module. The resulting context representations are passed to a self-
attention layer and then used for supporting facts prediction by passing to a Bi-GRU layer.
• Sun et al. [138] propose MHQA methods for four different datasets: HybridQA, QASPER,
HotpotQA-Long and ShARC-Long. QASPER is originally proposed as single hop QA over
long documents whereas ShARC is proposed as a conversational QA task. The paper utilizes
the fact that long documents are often structured into sections and subsections which can be
used as separate contexts with limited dependence among them. A pre-trained ETC model [1]
is used as the question encoder and the context encoder. ETC is a pre-trained Mask Language
Model that employs a global-local attention mechanism. ETC assigns to each sentence a
special global token that only attends to local tokens in the sentence, and its embedding
is trained to summarize the information of local tokens in the sentence. ETC additionally
adopts Contrastive Predictive Coding (CPC) [147] to train the embedding of global tokens
to make them aware of other sentences in the context. It takes in a sequence of sentences
and outputs the contextualized representations of each sentence. For conversational QA, the
question is formed by concatenating the original question with a sentence formed by each
pair of follow-up question and answer. ETC is again used to encode the question paragraph.
For the 2-hop questions (HotpotQA, HybridQA), a null sentence is passed to ETC along with
the question to get two question encodings. The paragraph embeddings are computed by a
weighted sum of sentence embeddings, where weights are the attention score of the query
vector to that sentence. At every step, each sentence and every paragraph in the document
is attended to the query and the output is used to update the query representations. The
updated query representation are then combined with the embedding of next query sentence
to give the query vector for the next hop.
Min et al. [102]also find that some of the questions are not composed of two single-hop questions but
require implicit multi-hop reasoning, hence cannot be decomposed. Secondly, for some questions,
answer for each sub-question does not exist explicitly in the text and has to be inferred with
commonsense reasoning.
4.2.3 Miscellaneous Techniques.
• Entailment based MHQA:Equation 1 presents MHQA roughly as an entailment task, where
the premise consists of multiple contexts and the hypothesis is "a answers q" (referred as𝐻𝑎𝑞
henceforth). This indicates the utility of entailment models for the task. However, modelling
MHQA as entailment faces three major challenges: a) A larger set of possible answers makes
this method difficult to scale. b) MHQA requires aggregation of multiple contexts and single
sentence based entailment models can not be used directly. c) Entailment models are usually
not trained to filter irrelevant information. Trivedi et al. [145] aim to tackle the two latter
challenges on Multiple choice datasets, OpenBookQA and MultiRC. Two simple baselines
are proposed: Concatenate that concatenates all sentences as the input to an entailment task,
and Max of local decisions that uses entailment on each sentence independently and then
aggregate the results with a max operation. The two baselines perform poorly validating the
challenges mentioned above. Therefore, a novel method ’Multee’ comprising of a sentence
relevance module and a multi-level aggregation is proposed. The sentence relevance module
uses a pre-trained entailment model to produce hypothesis aware representation of each
sentence which are passed to a Bi-LSTM layer to give contextual representation of each
sentence which is fed to a feed forward layer to get the relevance scores𝛼𝑖. The multi-level
aggregation module pass each sentence along with the hypothesis to𝑘 ESIM [19] entailment
stacks to generate𝑘 paragraph level vectors which are concatenated and passed to a feed
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 23]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:23
forward layer to predict the entailment. Each entailment stack has𝑚 layers,𝑙 of these layers
process each sentence independently and the outputs are aggregated by using 𝛼𝑖’s. Rest
of the layers process this aggregated output to result in paragraph level embeddings. The
aggregation is also done in the cross attention layer to produce a cross attention matrix
containing attention between each hypothesis token and each paragraph token. The sentence
relevance weights are used here as well. Each entailment stack used is pre-trained on SNLI
[13] and MultiNLI [161].
• Commonsense knowledge for MHQA: Bauer et al. [7] argue that a pre-trained model may
not be able to capture every grounded common-sense knowledge even with large corpora
and propose using ConceptNet [134] for extracting the same and using it, form reasoning
paths leading to the answer. A tree of various reasoning paths, all starting from the question
concepts (𝑐′
1𝑠) is formed by following four steps: a) Selecting relations𝑟′
1𝑠 from ConceptNet
that link𝑐1 to another concept𝑐2 from the context. b) selecting relations𝑟′
2𝑠 that link𝑐2 to
another concept𝑐3 from the context. c) Selecting all neighbouring concepts𝑐4 of𝑐3 connected
by𝑟3. d) Selecting relations𝑟4 that link𝑐4 to another concept𝑐5 from the context. This results
in a large number of reasoning paths that are scored in two steps: a)𝑛−𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 is computed by
term frequency of each of𝑐2,𝑐 3,𝑐 5 in the context𝐶.𝑐4 is scored with its Point-wise Mutual
Information (PMI) [24] with𝑐1−3. Each node’s score is normalized across all its siblings in
the tree using Softmax. b)𝑐−𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 The node scores are accumulated starting from the leaf
node and updating each non-leaf node recursively.
𝑐_𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(𝑐𝑖) =
(
𝑛_𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(𝑐𝑖) 𝑐𝑖 is a leaf node
𝑛_𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(𝑐𝑖)+ 𝑐_𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(𝑐′
𝑖+1)+𝑐_𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(𝑐′′
𝑖+1)
2 𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑤𝑖𝑠𝑒 (7)
where𝑐′
𝑖+1 and𝑐′′
𝑖+1 are the top two scoring children of𝑐𝑖. At each level of the tree, for every
node, only the two top scoring children are maintained and the rest are pruned resulting
in a total of 24 reasoning paths. Context representation is attended to the commonsense
representations formed by embedding the tokens in each of the reasoning paths. Updated
context representation is combined with the original one using a sigmoid gate. The gate
incorporates the fact that the commonsense might be optional. Hence, the unit is called NOIC
(Necessary and Optional Information Cell).
• Reasoning over tables: Chen et al. [21] use BERT to encode a cell in a table where a cell is
represented by its value, position, hyperlinks etc. Encoding of a cell along with the encodings
of its neighbouring cells is fed to a feed forward model and a Softmax layer to find the cell
for the next hop. The model can also hop to the same cell. The cell value is prepended to the
hyperlinked passage and passed to the answer prediction module.
• Pointer network for reasoning chain prediction: Chen et al. [18] encode the question
and obtain query dependent paragraph encoding by using BERT. Sentence encodings are
extracted from the paragraph encoding similar to Huang and Yang[61]. Alternative baselines
are a) BERT-Sent that obtains query aware encoding of each sentence by using BERT and
b) BiDAF-Para that uses BiDAF [127] to encode paragraphs. Results show that BERT-para
performs the best. An LSTM Pointer Network is trained to predict probability of each sentence
being the𝑡−𝑡ℎ sentence in the reasoning chain i.e.,𝑃(𝑠𝑖 =𝑟𝑐𝑡). The ground truth reasoning
chain is determined using a chain extractor model discussed in Section 4.4. The model is
trained using both Negative Log Likelihood (NLL) and Reinforcement Learning (RL). However,
RL does not improve the performance significantly. During test time, a beam of possible
chains is maintained since the best chain may not be evident until it is entirely retrieved.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 24]]
111:24 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
• Bi-directional attention baseline: Yang et al. [173] propose a baseline by modifying the
architecture of Song et al. [133]. Question and the concatenation of paragraphs is passed to
an RNN for combining the character and word level embeddings. Bi-directional attention is
applied across the question and context embeddings to get query aware context representa-
tions. A residual connection is added to the output of another RNN on these representations
before passing to a self-attention layer.
4.3 Answer Prediction Module
4.3.1 Candidate answering approach. Methods dealing with candidate answer prediction usually
start the retrieval/reasoning process by using a candidate-aware embedding of the question, and
output the representations for each candidate independently. A Bi-directional attention layer on
query and context [ 15]. These representations can be used to perform an independent binary
classification for each candidate (for multiple-correct type questions such as MultiRC) [145, 169–
171] or a multi-way classification for all candidates (for single-correct type questions such as
OpenBookQA, WikiHop) [15, 18, 30, 170, 171]. De Cao et al. [30] also use an ensemble of 5 models,
each trained with a different weight initialisation. Yadav et al. [170] use both the answering methods
for QASC and find that the multi-way classification results in an improvement of 5% accuracy.
4.3.2 Span answering approach.
• Yang et al. [173] Output of the reasoning module is passed to another RNN for supporting
facts prediction. Another RNN is used to predict the start and end token of the answer span.
Finally, a three-way classifier layer is used to predict the answer type among ’yes’, ’no’ and
the extracted span. Many methods focusing on the first two units use this baseline as the
answer prediction unit [14, 28, 41, 113, 128, 129, 179].
• Qi et al. [112] make two changes to this baseline: a) Concatenating passages before encoding
makes the representations depend on the order while concatenating. Thus, a shared RNN
encoder first encodes each passage independently and then concatenates the representations.
b) All the attention layers are replaced by self-attention on the concatenated question and
context representation.
• Ding et al. [34], Fang et al. [40] replace the RNNs in the baseline by MLPs and directly feed
the node representations for answering. Xiong et al. [167] deal only with bridge question
and hence use a single MLP for span prediction on entities. Thayaparan et al. [142] only deal
with supporting facts prediction and use a single MLP for the same.
• Zhang et al. [181] use an ALBERT model to predict the answer span among the𝐾 identified
passages. The model then predicts if the answer was found in the given passage. If not, the
predicted span is used for iterative retrieval for the next hop.
• Min et al. [102] use an off-the-shelf single-hop answering module to answer the sub-questions
formed by the reasoner.
• Malon and Bai [95] use a simple BERT model to answer the question from the paragraph
identified as the answer paragraph. Dua et al. [36] do the same from the concatenation of the
two identified passages.
• Chen et al. [18] concatenate question and all sentences of all the retrieved reasoning chains
and feed to BERT to perform the 4 tasks.
• Huang and Yang [61] propose to use the output of the GNN model. Sentence scores are
computed using MLPs on the sentence node representations. Paragraph score are computed
using MLPs on max pooling over the sentence representations. The two scores are combined
with the span extraction score to predict the final answer. Separate MLPs are used for
predicting the answer type and the supporting facts.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 25]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:25
• Sun et al. [138] Concatenate the embeddings at all retrieved steps{𝑘 0,··· ,𝑘∗,··· ,𝑘 0,··· ,𝑘∗}
and perform a weighted sum to getK that is used to make the final prediction. The Softmax
weightY𝑗 is computed across the retrieved sentences from all steps.
4.3.3 Generative answering approach. Bauer et al. [7] use a self-attention layer followed by a PGN
decoder to get the final answer.
4.4 Auxiliary Tasks
4.4.1 Reasoning Chain Prediction. Reasoning chains are an integral part of explainable MHQA.
HotpotQA contains the supporting facts that are required to answer the question, however these
are not ordered. Several works have aimed to predict the order among these supporting facts by
using simple lexical heuristics [66, 144, 151] so that the reasoning chain formed can be used to
further train or evaluate a model. However, it is also crucial for the models to be able to predict the
reasoning chains only by using the question and contexts.
• Feng et al. [42] propose a semi supervised reinforcement learning for two modules to recover
the reasoning chain in a cooperative-game approach. Apart from predicting the reasoning
chain, the model is also able to predict the relations among the sentences. The two modules
are: a) Ranker module that, given 𝑘 passages and a question, selects a reasoning chain.
Question and passages are encoded by bi-GRU [22] and a Match-LSTM [156] model is used to
get a probability for each passage containing a part of the reasoning chain. A passage is then
sampled and used to update the question by passing to an MLP. The process is repeated with
the updated question. The ranker module is rewarded for selecting the correct passage at the
correct reasoning step. b) Reasoner module that predicts the entity from the current passage
to the next passage. Given the first passage (called head) selected by the trained Ranker, the
Reasoner uses a Math-LSTM model to predict the probability of each entity appearing in the
second passage (called tail). While the ordering of the supporting facts is generated similar
to Yang et al. [173] for HotpotQA, the reasoning chains need to be manually annotated for
MedHop. The manual annotation is done by extracting all valid paths such that the first
sentence contains an entity in the second sentence and the second contains the answer. A
chain is manually labelled as positive if the corresponding passage describes the drug-protein
interaction. Reasoning chains extracted in this way may not be unique.
• Chen et al. [18] derive pseudo gold chains using NER and co-reference resolution. A sentence
(only) graph is constructed with edges between sentences that belong to the same paragraph
and between those that have a shared entity. Reasoning chains are collected by starting
from the question node and finding all possible paths in the graph that lead to an answer
containing sentence. These chains are then ranked by two heuristics: a) shorter chains are
given higher scores. b) chains whose sentences have a high F-1 ROUGE overlap with the
question are given higher scores. Experimental results indicate that b) is a good criteria for
scoring chains. Human evaluation shows that the reasoning chains produced are of similar
quality compared to the supporting facts present in the HotpotQA. A pointer network is then
trained to predict each sentence in the reasoning chains.
4.4.2 QA with partial knowledge. Khot et al. [73] propose a new sub task of MHQA where the
model has to figure out and fill the knowledge gap for question answering. It is assumed that the
first hop retrieval has been performed ideally and the task is to use the retrieved context to answer
the question. Modified version of OpenBookQA is released where the core fact is part of the input
and several relations have been modified.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 26]]
111:26 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
Multi-hop 
QA task RC based
Others
Graph 
based
Edge
Type
Node 
Granularity
Entity
Sentence
Paragraph
Homogenous
Heterogeneous
Question 
Decomposition
N-hop
Any-hop
Specific
Task 
based
Domain 
Specificity
No. of Hops
Two-hop
Generic
Span
MCQ
Answer 
Type
Generative
Retrieval
based
Final 
Retrieval
Preliminary
Retrieval
Rerank
Concatenation
Rerank 
paradigm
Rerank Unit
Retrieval 
Rounds
Retriever 
type
Supervised
Unsupervised
ContextChain
Single
Iterative
Reformulative
Linking
Dense
Lexical
Fig. 4. Overview of Proposed Taxonomy.
5 PROPOSED TAXONOMY
Section 4 covers the existing methods in a structured way, proposing some bases for classifications
for MHQA techniques. We summarize these in Table 6.1.1. The acronyms used in the table are
described below.
• General:
– Datasets used 9: The datasets used for MHQA along with their acronyms in Table 6.1.1 are:
HotpotQA ([173]) in the full-wiki (HP-F) and distractor (HP-D) settings. Sun et al. [138]pro-
vide the modified versions of the ShARC [121] and the HotpotQA datasets as ShARC-Long
(Sh-L) and HotpotQA-Long (HP-L). MultiRC [71] (MRC), ARC [26] (ARC), QAngaroo
datasets [159] WikiHop (WH) and MedHop ( MH), HybridQA [21] (Hy), QASPER [29]
(QSP), OpenBookQA [97] (OB), QASC[72] (QSC) and Nr [77].
– Hop Constraints: Some of the methods require the type of questions to be exactly two-
hop questions ( Two) or require the number of hops in the question to be provided as
an input (N). Other methods are flexible for answering any-hop questions without any
additional input (Any).
– Answer types: Whether the methods proposed work for MCQ type questions ( MCQ),
Span based questions (Span) and generative answers (Gen). Note that some methods focus
on more than one of these answer types.
– Domain Specificity: Whether the works focus on domain specific (Specific) or domain
generic techniques (Generic).
• Retrieval:
– Retriever Type: Whether the preliminary retrieval step uses a dense (Dense) or a lexical
(Lexical) retriever.
9Note that we do not include the datasets used in the proposed Taxonomy, but still add it in the Table 6.1.1 for the sake of
completeness.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 27]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:27
– No. of Retrieval Passes: Whether the preliminary step is single pass (Single) or iterative
(Iter). In case it is iterative, whether it uses query reformulation ( Iter-QR) or Entity-
links/Hyperlinks (Iter-EL/H).
– Final Retrieval Strategy Whether the final retrieval step uses a simple concatenation/union
(Concat) of the contexts or it is uses a re-ranking approach (RR). In case, it uses re-ranking,
whether the re-ranking is supervised (RR-S-?) or unsupervised (RR-U-?), and whether the
individual contexts (RR-?-X) or the entire chain candidates (RR-?-C) are scored during
the re-ranking.
• RC based:
– Node Granularity: In case the reasoner is a graph based model, what kinds of nodes it
has: entity nodes (Ent), sentence nodes (Snt) or passage nodes (Psg). Note that the graph
may have more than one type of nodes. (-) in case the reasoner is not graph based.
– Relational Edge: Whether the graph is a relational graph (Yes) (i.e., has multiple types of
edges) or not (No) (i.e., has single edge type). (-) in case the reasoner is not graph based.
– Question Decomposition: Whether the reasoning module uses question decomposition
(QuesD) or not ( Other). The rows where both graph-based and decomposition-based
columns are (-) are for the models that use other techniques like [127].
6 EVALUATION TECHNIQUES
6.1 Evaluation Metrics
Diversity in multi-hop QA tasks and datasets engenders the need for different evaluation metrics.
6.1.1 Answer Evaluation.
• Multi-Choice questions: MCQ questions are straight-forward to evaluate when there is a
single correct answer, and classification accuracy over the answer choices is used. To deal
with multiple correct answer candidates, Khashabi et al. [71] propose F1a and F1m. Precision
and Recall are computed by evaluating each predicted answer candidate. Macro harmonic
mean of average precision and average recall is the F1m score. F1a uses micro harmonic
mean of precision and recall values for all answer candidates.
• Span based answers: The most commonly adopted metrics are Exact Match (EM) and
F1 scores on the predicted string tokens. Tang et al. [141] argue that EM can often be too
strict and propose an alternative Partial Match (PM) where a predicted answer𝑎𝑝 is said
to be a partial match with the ground truth answer 𝑎𝑔 if either (a) 𝐹 1(𝑎𝑝,𝑎𝑔) > 0.8 or (b)
𝐹 1(𝑎𝑝,𝑎𝑔) > 0.6 and one of𝑎𝑝,𝑎𝑔 is a substring of the other. These evaluation metrics are
known to work well when the answer spans are small (< 10 tokens).
• Auxiliary task evaluation: supporting facts Yang et al. [173] propose to evaluate the
reasoning chains by reporting EM and F1 on the supporting facts (note that this is different
from reasoning chain as supporting facts are sentences and the contexts are passages). They
also propose Joint-EM and Joint-F1 where the precision is defined as𝑃𝑗𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡 =𝑃𝑎𝑛𝑠·𝑃𝑠𝑢𝑝
and the recall as𝑅𝑗𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡 =𝑅𝑎𝑛𝑠·𝑅𝑠𝑢𝑝 . Qiu et al. [113] compute the score of a reasoning path in
the entity graph by multiplying the corresponding soft masks and attention scores along the
path and selecting the top-k scoring paths. If any entity in a supporting fact is reached by
any of the𝑘 paths, that fact is said to be a hit. Entity-level Supporting fact Prediction (ESP)
scores are reported as Exact Match (EM) and Recall values over these supporting facts.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 28]]
111:28 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
Table 3. Comprehensive study of existing work using the proposed taxonomy.
General Retrieval Reasoning
Datasets Hop
Constraints
Answer
type
Domain
Specificity Preliminary Final Graph based Ques
Decomp
Type Technique Technique Node types Relational
graph?
Ding et al. [34] HP-F N Span Generic Lexical Iter-EL/H Concat Ent Yes Other
Feldman and El-Yaniv [41] HP-F N Span Generic Dense Iter-QR RR-S-X - - Other
Das et al. [28] HP-F Two MCQ Generic Lexical Iter-EL/H RR-S-C - - Other
Yadav et al. [169] ARC, MRC Any MCQ Generic Lexical Single RR-U-C - - Other
Xiong et al. [167] HP-F Two Span Specific Lexical Iter-EL/H RR-S-X - - Other
Fang et al. [40] HP-F Two MCQ Generic Lexical Iter-EL/H RR-S-C Ent-Snt-Psg No Other
Yadav et al. [170] MRC, QSC Any MCQ Specific Lexical Iter-QR Concat - - Other
Zhang et al. [181] HP-F Any Span Generic Lexical Iter-QR RR-S-X Psg Yes Other
Yadav et al. [171] MRC, QSC Two MCQ Generic Dense Iter-QR RR-S-C - - Other
Shao et al. [129] HP-F Two Span Generic Lexical Iter-EL/H RR-S-X - - Other
Sidiropoulos et al. [130] HP-F Two Span Generic Dense Single RR-S-X - - Other
Cao et al. [15] WH N Span Generic - - Concat Ent-Snt-Psg No Other
Thayaparan et al. [142] HP-D N Span Generic - - Concat Snt-Psg No Other
Min et al. [102] HP-D Two Span Generic - - Concat - - QuesD
De Cao et al. [30] WH N Span Generic - - Concat Ent No Other
Zhang et al. [179] HP-D N Span Generic - - RR-S-X Ent-Snt No Other
Malon and Bai [95] HP-D Any Span Generic Lexical Iter-QR RR-S-X - - QuesD
Feng et al. [42] MH, HP-D N Span Specific Dense Single RR-S-C - - Other
Chen et al. [18] WH, HP-D N Span Generic - - Concat Snt No Other
Huang and Yang [61] HP-D Any Span Generic - - Concat Snt No Other
Cao and Liu [14] HP-D Any Span Generic - - Concat - - QuesD
Sun et al. [138] HP-L, Sh-L
QSP, Hy N Span Specific - - Concat - - QuesD
Dua et al. [36] WH, HP-D Two Span Generic - - RR-S-C - - Other
Qi et al. [112] HP-D N Span Generic Lexical Iter-QR Concat - - Other
Qiu et al. [113] HP-D N Span Generic - - RR-S-X Ent No Other
Shao et al. [128] HP-D N Span Generic - - RR-S-X - - Other
Bauer et al. [7] Nr N Gen Specific - - RR-S-X Ent Yes Other
Trivedi et al. [145] MRC, OB Any MCQ Generic - - Concat - - Other
Khot et al. [73] OB - MCQ Specific Lexical Single Concat - - Other
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 29]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:29
• Generative answers: For longer sequences of texts, directly matching strings to give a
binary score fails to tell which answers are closer to the gold answers. Thus, natural language
generation (NLG) evaluation metrics are required. Kočisk`y et al. [77] propose using Bleu-1,
Bleu-4, Meteor [5, 108] and ROUGE-L [87] to evaluate predictions on their dataset. Bauer
et al. [7] also use CIDer [149] for evaluating long answers on NarrativeQA which emphasizes
on annotator consensus.
6.1.2 Retrieval evaluation.
• Preliminary retrieval: Ye et al. [175] propose three evaluation metrics: P EM (Paragraph
exact match) that measures the ability of the retriever to retrieve all the gold paragraphs
in the reasoning chain; PR (Paragraph recall) that computes the recall of gold paragraphs
among the retrieved paragraphs; and AR (answer recall) that checks if any of the retrieved
paragraph contains the answer. Das et al. [28] propose acc@𝑘 which measures the fraction
of cases where the model was able to retrieve all the supporting facts within top𝑘 retrieved
documents. Sidiropoulos et al. [130] define the per-hop retrieval evaluation that treats each
hop of retrieval independently. First hop retrieval performance is measured by fraction of
cases where the first gold context is retrieved in the first hop of retrieval. For the second hop,
the gold paragraph is added to the set of contexts retrieved in the first hop and the ability to
retrieve the second hop gold paragraph is evaluated. Since the paper only deals with 2-hop
questions, the definition is originally limited to 2 hops. However, we note that this might be
extended to𝑛 hops where the𝑛𝑡ℎ retrieval step is evaluated by the ability to retrieve the𝑛𝑡ℎ
gold paragraph𝑝𝑛 given∪𝑛−1
𝑖=1({𝑝𝑖}∪ 𝑅𝑖) where𝑅𝑖 is the set of contexts retrieved during𝑖𝑡ℎ
hop.
• Re-ranking: Jhamtani and Clark[66] require the models to classify or rank several reasoning
chains as valid explanations of the answer. Therefore, they use AUC-ROC [96] (area under
the Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curve) andF1 scores for classification, andP@1
and Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG) [65] for ranking. P@1 measures
the fraction of cases where the top ranked chain is valid, whereas NDCG is a commonly used
metric for evaluating rankings. MRR [65] (Mean Reciprocal Rank) is another ranking based
metric used for evaluating ranking of reasoning chains [63, 77]. Das et al. [28] also use Mean
Average Precision (MAP) [90] that considers the relative position of the relevant document
in the ranked list [69].
6.2 Adversarial evaluation
As indicated in Section 3.1, the particular choice of available contexts ( 𝐶) for a question in the
dataset can lead to ‘reasoning shortcuts’ where a model can correctly answer the question by using
only a single context. To avoid such shortcuts in the HotpotQA’s distractor setting, the authors
used TF-IDF for retrieving confusing contexts. Min et al. [102] collect a different set of distractor
paragraphs for the HotpotQA dataset, to evaluate if the models are robust to this change. Same
strategy as (Yang et al. [173]) is used while making sure that there is no overlapping distractor
paragraph with the original set. An adversarial set of comparison questions is also created by
altering the original question so that the correct answer is inverted (for instance, replacing ’which
is higher’ by ’which is lower’). Tu et al. [146] use a clever technique to add fake distractors that can
fool a model which uses single hop reasoning shortcuts to answer the questions. A word in the final
answer is replaced by another word having a similar GloVe embedding to create a fake answer. For
instance, ‘Mumbai’ is replaced by ‘Delhi’. All occurrences of the word are replaced in the answer
passage to get a confusing distractor passage. Since the bridge entity is mentioned in the title of the
answer passage, all mentions of a word from the title are also replaced with a similar entity. This is
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 30]]
111:30 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
done to break the connection between the fake distractor and the first gold context. This ensures
that there is only a single reasoning chain and that a model cannot answer the question by only
looking at the answer’s paragraph. Evaluation using the adversarial distractors shows a significant
drop in the accuracy of a baseline model. Moreover, training using adversarial distractors leads to
better performance on the original distractors as well. Therefore, more confusing distractors would
lead to better training as well as testing of the MHQA models.
6.3 Verifying the extent of multi-hop reasoning
Despite the improved scores of models indicated by multiple evaluation metrics on various datasets,
it remains doubtful whether the models are actually performing the multi-hop reasoning and
following the expected reasoning path for reaching the correct answer. Therefore, different evalua-
tion techniques and modifications of existing datasets are proposed as benchmarks for testing the
multi-hop reasoning capabilities of a model.
• In order to evaluate the interpretability of a model, Ding et al. [34] define the Logical rigor of
a model as Joint EM/Ans EM. Intuitively, it tries to measure among the questions that were
answered correctly, what fraction also had correct supporting facts prediction. Surprisingly,
baselines have scores of only 30.3% and 7.9%.
• Wang et al. [151] modify and further annotate HotpotQA to provide three settings, where
the models are provided (1) only the passage containing the answer, (2) both supporting
passages in random order and (3) both supporting passages in the order of their occurrence
in the reasoning chain, with the intuition that a model that employs multi-step reasoning to
answer multi-hop questions should benefit from the supporting passages whereas a model
that tries to guess the answer directly would instead be confused by the extra informa-
tion given. Two common techniques, BERT and HotpotReader were tested after employing
both query-reformulating and co-matching approaches (see Section 5 on taxonomy) and it
was observed the models could gain very little performance (∼ 1% and 4% accuracy with
query reformulation and co-matching respectively) by using the reasoning chains provided
which highlights the inability of the existing techniques to incorporate multi-hop reasoning
to perform MHQA. Further, it is found that BERT and co-matching show slightly higher
improvements than their respective counter-parts.
• Tang et al . [141] use BERT and DecompRC [ 102] to generate single hop sub-questions
comprising the 2-hop questions in the HotpotQA dataset and the answers to these questions.
The claim is that if a model employs multi-hop reasoning to answer a question, it should
trivially be able to answer the individual sub-questions. Surprisingly, for the∼ 50− 60% of
the questions correctly answered, at least 1 of their corresponding sub-questions could not be
answered correctly. Further, of the questions where both the sub-questions were answered
correctly,∼ 10% were incorrectly answered. This indicates that the models tend to jump
directly to the answer instead of breaking down the questions into simpler questions.
• Jhamtani and Clark [66] propose three modifications of the QASC dataset that require the
model to explicitly predict the reasoning chains along with the final answers (explainable
MHQA). i) eQASC: For each question in QASC, up to 10 candidate reasoning chains are
automatically generated and each candidate chain is annotated to be valid (if the chain can
imply the answer) or invalid (otherwise). ii) eQASC-perturbed: In the candidate chains of
QASC, one word/phrase that is likely to be a bridge entity among two facts, is replaced by a
similar meaning word ensuring that the chain remains to be valid. This is done by crowd
sourcing where workers were asked to replace one occurrence of the word that appears
in different sentences of a candidate chain. iii) eOBQA: a small number of questions in
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 31]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:31
OpenBookQA are used for generating candidate reasoning chains using sentences present in
QASC and are annotated by crowd-sourcing. This is done to test the generalization of the
model on an unseen dataset.
• Trivedi et al. [144] use the term Disconnected Reasoning (DiRe) for when the model is able
to arrive at the correct answer using (possibly multiple independent) incomplete reasoning
chains. To measure disconnected reasoning, a DiRe probe is created that checks if the output
ofℎ(𝑞,𝐶−{𝑝1}) andℎ(𝑞,𝐶−{𝑝2}) (refer to section 2 for notations) can be trivially combined
to answer𝑞,𝐶 (’−’ denotes set difference). To discourage disconnected reasoning, the dataset
is modified to include negative samples where the given 𝐶 is not sufficient to answer the
question i.e.,𝐶∩𝑃𝑞 ≠𝜙 and the model is required to identify these questions as unanswerable.
When running the DiRe probe, disconnected reasoning is found to be reduced significantly
after training using this modification.
• Inoue et al. [62] argue that requiring the model to only output the supporting facts might
not be enough to ensure the explainability of the model and the model should be required
to also output the derivation steps. A derivation step is formalized as a triplet of the form
⟨𝑑ℎ,𝑑𝑟,𝑑𝑡⟩, where𝑑ℎ,𝑑𝑡 are entities (noun phrases), and 𝑑𝑟 is a verb phrase representing
a relationship between the two entities. A small subset of the HotpotQA dataset is anno-
tated by crowd-sourcing and released. Evaluating models on this set indicates the scope of
improvement on this benchmark.
Results of these works are significant as they suggest that improved accuracy on existing datasets
may not correlate well with the models’ ability to perform multi-hop reasoning. Furthermore, they
highlight the inefficacy of existing models to perform multi-hop reasoning as well as the inefficacy
of the datasets to evaluate the same. This implies a need for more carefully created datasets and
challenging benchmarks that do not allow the models to score well without accurately following
the required reasoning paths. Additionally, it is encouraged to formulate better and more such
tests/probes that check and prevent the models from using loop-holes instead of doing multi-hop
reasoning. Above all, it is fair to say that the task of MHQA is far from solved.
7 MULTI-HOP QUESTION GENERATION
The task of Multi-Hop Question Generation (MHQG) is to generate a multi-hop question given a
set of contexts and optionally, an answer. MHQG has widespread applications in multiple domains
including education, where generating questions that require multiple steps of reasoning can be
very useful for inspiring critical thinking in students [ 89]. QG also has a direct application for
chat-bots e.g., in initiating conversations, asking and providing detailed information to the user by
considering multiple sources of information. MHQG will enhance the ability of these chat-bots to
ask useful questions [174]. It can also combine with question answering (QA) models as dual tasks
to boost QA systems with reasoning ability [140].
The task of traditional question generation (QG) has gained a lot of interest recently [35, 125, 183].
However, MHQG is a more challenging task than simple QG. It requires the model to first identify
scattered pieces of information that can be aptly combined to form a valid reasoning path from the
answer to the question, and then reason over these pieces of information to generate a factual and
coherent question.
7.1 Datasets
The datasets for MHQA can also be used to train and evaluate MHQG models by modifying the
input and the required output of the model [54, 137]. Since HotpotQA has annotated supporting
facts, it is able to provide stronger training supervision and hence, it is the most commonly used
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 32]]
111:32 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
dataset for MHQG. Kumar et al. [79] use the DecompRC model [102] to decompose each question
in HotpotQA into two sub questions and fine tune a GPT2-small model to rewrite the first question
into the second. Yu et al. [176] use HotpotQA as the labelled dataset and ComplexWebQuestions
[139] and DROP [38] as large corpora for multi-hop questions.
7.2 Evaluation
Language generation metrics such as BLEU (BLEU1-4), ROUGE-L, METEOR are usually adopted
for MHQG [ 54, 79, 119, 137, 176]. QBLEU4 [ 105], a QG metric which was shown to correlate
significantly better with human judgements, is also used for evaluating MHQG [79, 137]. The task
also often requires human evaluation of fluency, semantics, answerability etc of the generated
questions. Sachan et al . [119] also use GLEU [ 165] for their experiments. Another method of
evaluating MHQG is to measure the gain in performance of SOTA MHQA models when trained
with data augmentation using the generated questions [79, 107].
7.3 Methods
Kumar et al. [79] tackle the problem of difficulty controllable question generation (DQG)[44] by
generating questions which require a particular number of reasoning hops. The assumption is that
the difficulty of a question directly correlates to the number of inference steps required to answer it.
The first step of the proposed algorithm builds a context graph in the same way as [39]. All sentences
from the context are converted into triplets of the form{𝑠(𝑠𝑢𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡),𝑟(𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛),𝑜(𝑜𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡)} and a
relational edge of type𝑟 is added from𝑠 to𝑜. Co-reference resolution is used to merge the nodes
referring to the same entity. Next, a node𝑁0 is sampled as the final answer and with 𝑁0 as the
root, a maximum spanning tree is extracted. For generating a question with difficulty (same as the
number of hops) =𝑑, the tree is pruned to have𝑑+ 1 nodes. A GPT2-small model is fine-tuned
on HotpotQA and used to generate an initial question𝑞0 using𝑁0,𝑁1 and the context sentence
connecting the two nodes𝑆1. Another GPT-2 model is used to rewrite the question iteratively and
successively increase the difficulty. In simpler words, for generating a question𝑞𝑑 with difficulty𝑑,
the re-writer model is run on𝑞0 for𝑑 iterations. While the model performs well for up-to 3 hops,
the input to the re-writer model becomes too large for subsequent hops and results in questions
with poor quality.
Su et al. [137] leverage a graph constructed similar to Qiu et al . [113] to generate multi-hop
questions. Pre-trained GloVe embeddings and answer tagging embeddings [89] are passed to two Bi-
LSTM layers to get the initial contextual representations. An attention layer and another Bi-LSTM
layer is used to get the answer aware context embeddings. An answer aware sub-graph is computed
by masking the entities that are irrelevant to the answer and Graph Attention Network is applied
to this sub-graph. The context encodings across the hops are combined via a gated fusion module.
The Answer embeddings are updated using bi-attention and The Maxout Pointer [183] framework
is used on top of a Uni-directional LSTM decoder to generate the question. An additional BFS loss
proposed by [113] is found to improve the performance.
Gupta et al. [54] exploit the presence of supporting facts in HotpotQA while training by adopting
an RL reward of the auxiliary task of supporting facts prediction (SFP). Similar to Su et al. [137],
answer tagging features are concatenated with the document word embeddings and fed to a Bi-
LSTM encoder. The output of the encoder is shared by the MHQG and supporting fact prediction
(SFP) models. The SFP model is a binary classifier trained on HotpotQA to output the probability
of each sentence being a supporting fact. The F1 score between the predicted and ground truth
supporting facts is added as a reward. The REINFORCE algorithm [162] is used with the self-critical
sequence training [117] framework to avoid the high variance. In order to make the training more
stable, a weight history similar to Rennie et al . [117] is added. The output probabilities of the
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 33]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:33
SFP model are also used to update the answer aware encodings by another Bi-LSTM model. For
generating the question, a LSTM decoder with global attention mechanism [93] is used along with
the copy mechanism [53, 126].
Sachan et al. [119] argue that using standard transformers instead of Graph networks should
be enough to reason about the relations between entities for forming multi-hop questions. A
transformer is extended with sentence id embeddings and answer token indicator embeddings
and trained with an additional contrastive loss as regularization. The contrastive learning setup
assumes supporting fact sentences as positive samples and others as negative samples and a binary
classifier consisting of a MLP. A significant mismatch in the distribution of question length over
train and dev set of HotpotQA is observed and mitigated by filtering out all the questions that are
more than 30 words long. Most of the pruned questions are from the train-easy subset. Both data
filtering and contrastive training are found to boost the performance significantly.
A novel graph-augmented transformer encoder (GATE) is proposed which has two additional
layers than the standard transformer encoder (TE): a) Graph-attention sub-layer computes the
similarity scores for attention using only the nodes that are connected in a dynamically created
graph. The graph is a multi-relational graph with three types of nodes- named-entity mentions,
co-referent-entities and sentence-ids. b) Fused attention sub-layer which uses a MLP with ReLU
activation to aggregate the graph-attention embeddings and the TE embeddings. Experiments show
that the added layers alone do not improve the performance significantly whereas an ensemble of
TE and GATE does.
Pan et al. [107] propose a question generation technique for the task of unsupervised MHQA.
Following HotpotQA, their method generates two types of questions:
Bridge questions: Given two contexts as inputs, all entities common to the two contexts are consid-
ered as bridge entities. A Google T5 model [114] is fine-tuned on SQuAD to generate two single
hop questions using the answer entity and the bridge entity respectively. The latter question is
converted to a declarative form,𝑠 following Demszky et al. [31]. The bridge entity in the bridge
entity question is replaced with "The [MASK] that {s}" and BERT -Large is used to fill the [MASK].
Comparison questions: Entities with NER types Nationality, Location, DateTime and Number are
treated as potential comparative properties. Two single hop questions are generated on two enti-
ties of the same NER type and a pre-defined template is used to combine these into a multi-hop
comparison question.
For generating questions using a table, a GPT-TabGen model [20] is used to generate sentences that
describe a given entity using information from the given table. These sentences are then used for
generating either bridge or comparison type questions. We refer the reader to Figure 4 of the original
paper Pan et al. [107] for a better understanding of the different types of generated questions. A
pre-trained GPT-2 model is used to filter questions that are unnatural or dis-fluent. A BART model
[85] is also used to paraphrase the generated questions. The generated questions are then used to
train the model resulting in a zero shot algorithm.
Yu et al. [176] aim to tackle MHQG in a low resource setting. Specifically, the model uses a
small amount of labelled data𝐷𝐿, in the form of(𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡,𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑤𝑒𝑟,𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 ) triplets, and a large
set of multi-hop questions𝐷𝑈 . The idea is to first learn the semantics of multi-hop questions by
training a neural hidden semi-Markov model [27] on the unlabelled data𝐷𝑈 . The model uses two
latent variables for parameterizing the similar segments in questions from𝐷𝑈 : a) a state variable𝑧𝑡,
indicating which segment the𝑡𝑡ℎ term belongs to, and b) a length variable𝑙𝑡, specifying the length
of the current segment. The term probabilities are computed using a GRU decoder followed by an
attention layer.
The patterns learned in the first step are used as priors for the QG model for regularization. Prior
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 34]]
111:34 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
is estimated by sampling a sequence of states𝑧𝑡 having length𝑙𝑡. The reasoning chain extraction
is similar to as described in Su et al . [137]. For encoding the textual input, BERT embeddings
are passed to a bi-GRU followed by an attention layer. The decoder is another GRU with a copy
mechanism [52] which is regularized to fit the prior pattern. The training loss is the weighted sum
of the cross entropy loss and RL policy gradient [ 86]. The reward function evaluates a) fluency
(following Zhang and Lapata [180]), b) Answerability (using QBLEU4), and c) Semantics (using
WMD).
8 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
Multi-hop QA has been researched quite frequently in the recent years with multiple diverse models
proposed that aim to model the multi-step retrieval-reasoning process and achieve promising
improvements on existing datasets and benchmarks. Such systems capable of performing multi-
step reasoning have a variety of applications ranging from chat-bot assistants that are capable of
interactive conversations, to search engines that are capable to retrieve results that may be relevant
but not reachable directly from the query text. At the same time the task of MHQA is significantly
more challenging than its single hop counterpart. Since paragraphs multiple hops away from the
question could share few common words and little semantic relation with the question [34], the
task to retrieve such contexts is challenging and suffers from semantic drift. The ability of current
models to combine multiple contexts for reasoning is also limited. Further challenges for solving
MHQA is the difficult process of creating datasets that require the models to perform multi-hop
reasoning, as well as the task of evaluating the models’ abilities to do so without any hacks. Some
challenging benchmarks and evaluation methods have been recently proposed that bring out some
surprising and interesting observations. These results point out to several limitations of existing
systems and call for further research.
Below, we list and discuss some of these directions for future research (including ones originating
from the currently recognized shortcomings) which we believe could be promising to be explored.
8.1 Flexible any-hop model
As discussed in Section 5, majority of the existing methods for MHQA are either limited to two
hops or require the number of hops to be a hyper-parameter. Since natural questions can require
any number of reasoning hops, this attribute of existing models is artificially limiting. QA systems
should be flexible and robust to the number of hops in a question in order to be practically usable.
In order to do so, methods following the type III and IV in Figure 2 should be explored with a
greater interest since feedback from the answering module can serve as a useful stopping criteria.
8.2 Explainable multi-hop QA
Despite the impressive gains in performance on various multi-hop datasets, it is not evident whether
the models are performing the multi-step reasoning or just guessing the answers. Therefore,
following the release of HotpotQA, a large number of works have focused on explainable MHQA.
Apart from the standard evaluation metrics, various evaluation methods and dataset benchmarks
have been proposed to test the explainability of the models which have revealed several significant
results. Further such benchmarks and evaluation strategies are encouraged to measure and reflect
the true progress of models in performing multi-hop reasoning.
8.3 Better datasets
Many works have highlighted the limitations of existing MHQA datasets. Chen and Durrett [17]
show experimentally that multi-choice questions are easier to hack by models, regardless of number
of answer candidates being small or very large. Similarly, Min et al. [102] show that the distractor
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 35]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:35
setting, even with as many as 500 distractors, is easier to hack for single-hop QA models. Yang
et al. [173] and Zhang et al. [179] argue that datasets that are created using KBs suffer from lack
of diversity in question and answer types. Following these observations, it is encouraged that the
future datasets are in the open-domain setting, have questions with either span-based or generative
answers, and do not rely completely on the structure of existing KBs.
Das et al. [28], Xiong et al . [167], Min et al . [102] and Min et al . [100] find that a significant
portion of questions in the existing datasets are single-hop solvable due to a variety of reasons.
One of these reasons is that the source of the questions is same as the set of contexts. Therefore
datasets like [23, 77, 143, 154, 159] that use separate sources for generating and answering questions
are encouraged. However, attention needs to be given to the cases where there is a discrepancy
between what is mentioned in the two sources [40].
Most of the existing works have focused on datasets with MCQ or questions with span answers
and more focus on the more challenging problem of generative MHQA is desirable.
8.4 Better evaluation metrics
As discussed in Section 6, a variety of evaluation metrics have been used for evaluating MHQA
models. However, existing metrics face some challenges and might not be sufficient for evaluating
MHQA. Since MHQA is a more complex task compared to single-hop QA, more metrics specific to
MHQA are encouraged. One promising direction is to perform per-hop evaluation and accumulate
the per-hop scores to get a final score. This kind of evaluation would require the models to be
explainable as well as interpretable.
Some challenges are common to both single-hop and multi-hop QA evaluation metrics. For
instance, while evaluating span based answers, metrics based on lexical matching would mark U.S.
as incorrect when the gold answer is United States [40]. Therefore, evaluation metrics should be
able to deal with synonyms when matching the answers. Another issue might be a metric giving a
score of 0 to the answer U.K. when the gold answer is London. These cases are frequent in datasets
like WikiHop where the sources of question and the contexts are different [30] and might have
answers mentioned with different granularity. Therefore, it might be useful to give some partial
score for the answer being geographically close or for the answer having a coarser granularity.
Similarly, answering January, 1989 should earn some score if the gold answer is December, 1988
due to the predicted answer being temporally close to the gold answer. Some partial score can also
be rewarded to answers having a coarser granularity (December, 1988 vs 1988). On similar lines,
using hypernym relations from ConceptNet or WordNet [98] for evaluating the answer can be a
possible direction.
Following a similar reasoning, the evaluation should match the semantics of the answer rather
than the lexical overlap. Therefore, evaluation metrics like word mover similarity [81] or sentence
mover similarity [25] that perform soft matching over embeddings might be a promising direction.
Since the evaluation of language generation tasks are widely known to have a scope of improvement,
evaluation of generative MHQA is also an open problem and new evaluation techniques are
encouraged.
8.5 Methods to incorporate commonsense
A hop in multi-hop reasoning can be performed using some retrieved context, where the context
may either be retrieved from the corpus or from the commonsense knowledge. Fang et al . [40]
find that 16% of the failures of their model were caused by missing commonsense background
knowledge. Bauer et al. [7] propose a novel method for incorporating commonsense for MHQA
that shows impressive results. More techniques for exploiting the rich commonsense knowledge
bases to perform multi-step reasoning can be a promising direction to explore.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 36]]
111:36 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
8.6 Arithmetic questions
The inability of QA systems to perform arithmetic operations is well known [ 57, 109, 124] and
this inability is exacerbated in the multi-hop setting. Min et al . [100] observe that 45% of the
comparison questions in HotpotQA are numerical questions. Fang et al. [40], Min et al. [102], Qiu
et al. [113] find that their model is unable to give a correct answer when the query is a comparison
between two dates “February 20, 1959” and “February 10, 1967”. Arithmetic calculation may also
be required for non-comparison type questions. For example, answering "Who was the president
of USA in 1994" from the context "Bill Clinton: 1993-2001" requires some arithmetic computation.
Wang et al. [153] approached this kind of temporal problems by computing the overlap of content
time expressions that occur in text with the computed question’s time scope using kernel density
estimate. Another example is [155] that answers "when" type questions by predicting the event
dates based on the analysis of multi-variate time series derived from underlying news collection.
Multi-hop QA systems that are capable of solving arithmetic comparisons and computations would
greatly enhance accuracy of MHQA.
Similarly, it is observed that some particular types of questions (temporal, geographical, count)
are more challenging than others [ 30, 34, 102, 181]. Figure 3 in Zhang et al . [181] shows the
complexity and model performance on different types of questions in HotpotQA. Targeting the
more challenging questions specifically could also lead to better MHQA systems.
REFERENCES
[1] Joshua Ainslie, Santiago Ontanon, Chris Alberti, Vaclav Cvicek, Zachary Fisher, Philip Pham, Anirudh Ravula, Sumit
Sanghai, Qifan Wang, and Li Yang. 2020. ETC: Encoding Long and Structured Inputs in Transformers. In Proceedings
of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) . Association for Computational
Linguistics, Online, 268–284. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.19
[2] Ali Mohamed Nabil Allam and Mohamed Hassan Haggag. 2012. The question answering systems: A survey. Interna-
tional Journal of Research and Reviews in Information Sciences (IJRRIS) 2, 3 (2012).
[3] David Alvarez-Melis and Tommi Jaakkola. 2017. A causal framework for explaining the predictions of black-box
sequence-to-sequence models. In Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, Copenhagen, Denmark, 412–421. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/
D17-1042
[4] Leila Arras, Franziska Horn, Grégoire Montavon, Klaus-Robert Müller, and Wojciech Samek. 2016. What is Relevant
in a Text Document?": An Interpretable Machine Learning Approach. CoRR abs/1612.07843 (2016). arXiv preprint
arXiv:1612.07843 (2016).
[5] Satanjeev Banerjee and Alon Lavie. 2005. METEOR: An Automatic Metric for MT Evaluation with Improved
Correlation with Human Judgments. InProceedings of the ACL Workshop on Intrinsic and Extrinsic Evaluation Measures
for Machine Translation and/or Summarization . Association for Computational Linguistics, Ann Arbor, Michigan,
65–72. https://aclanthology.org/W05-0909
[6] Regina Barzilay, Kathleen McKeown, and Michael Elhadad. 1999. Information fusion in the context of multi-document
summarization. In Proceedings of the 37th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics . 550–557.
[7] Lisa Bauer, Yicheng Wang, and Mohit Bansal. 2018. Commonsense for Generative Multi-Hop Question Answering
Tasks. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing . 4220–4230.
[8] Ruben Becker, Federico Corò, Gianlorenzo D’Angelo, and Hugo Gilbert. 2020. Balancing Spreads of Influence
in a Social Network. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 34 (April 2020), 3–10. https:
//doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5327
[9] Chandra Sekhar Bhagavatula, Thanapon Noraset, and Doug Downey. 2013. Methods for exploring and mining tables
on wikipedia. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD workshop on interactive data exploration and analytics . 18–26.
[10] Or Biran and Courtenay Cotton. 2017. Explanation and justification in machine learning: A survey. In IJCAI-17
workshop on explainable AI (XAI) , Vol. 8. 8–13.
[11] Emanuela Boros, Jose G. Moreno, and Antoine Doucet. 2021. Event Detection as Question Answering with Entity
Information. CoRR abs/2104.06969 (2021). arXiv:2104.06969 https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.06969
[12] Abdelghani Bouziane, Djelloul Bouchiha, Noureddine Doumi, and Mimoun Malki. 2015. Question answering systems:
survey and trends. Procedia Computer Science 73 (2015), 366–375.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 37]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:37
[13] Samuel R Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D Manning. 2015. A large annotated corpus
for learning natural language inference. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP
2015. Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 632–642.
[14] Xing Cao and Yun Liu. 2021. Coarse-grained decomposition and fine-grained interaction for multi-hop question
answering. Journal of Intelligent Information Systems (2021), 1–21.
[15] Yu Cao, Meng Fang, and Dacheng Tao. 2019. BAG: Bi-directional Attention Entity Graph Convolutional Network for
Multi-hop Reasoning Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) . 357–362.
[16] Danqi Chen, Adam Fisch, Jason Weston, and Antoine Bordes. 2017. Reading Wikipedia to Answer Open-Domain
Questions. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Vancouver, Canada, 1870–1879. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17-
1171
[17] Jifan Chen and Greg Durrett. 2019. Understanding Dataset Design Choices for Multi-hop Reasoning. In Proceedings of
the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) . Association for Computational Linguistics, Minneapolis, Minnesota,
4026–4032. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1405
[18] Jifan Chen, Shih-ting Lin, and Greg Durrett. 2019. Multi-hop question answering via reasoning chains. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1910.02610 (2019).
[19] Qian Chen, Xiaodan Zhu, Zhen-Hua Ling, Si Wei, Hui Jiang, and Diana Inkpen. 2017. Enhanced LSTM for Natural
Language Inference. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Vancouver, Canada, 1657–1668. https://doi.org/10.18653/
v1/P17-1152
[20] Wenhu Chen, Jianshu Chen, Yu Su, Zhiyu Chen, and William Yang Wang. 2020. Logical Natural Language Generation
from Open-Domain Tables. CoRR abs/2004.10404 (2020). arXiv:2004.10404 https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.10404
[21] Wenhu Chen, Hanwen Zha, Zhiyu Chen, Wenhan Xiong, Hong Wang, and William Yang Wang. 2020. HybridQA:
A Dataset of Multi-Hop Question Answering over Tabular and Textual Data. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020 . 1026–1036.
[22] Kyunghyun Cho, B van Merrienboer, Caglar Gulcehre, F Bougares, H Schwenk, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014. Learning
phrase representations using RNN encoder-decoder for statistical machine translation. In Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 2014) .
[23] Eunsol Choi, He He, Mohit Iyyer, Mark Yatskar, Wen-tau Yih, Yejin Choi, Percy Liang, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2018.
QuAC : Question Answering in Context.CoRR abs/1808.07036 (2018). arXiv:1808.07036 http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.07036
[24] Kenneth Ward Church and Patrick Hanks. 1990. Word Association Norms, Mutual Information, and Lexicography.
Computational Linguistics 16, 1 (1990), 22–29. https://aclanthology.org/J90-1003
[25] Elizabeth Clark, Asli Celikyilmaz, and Noah A Smith. 2019. Sentence mover’s similarity: Automatic evaluation
for multi-sentence texts. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics .
2748–2760.
[26] Peter Clark, Isaac Cowhey, Oren Etzioni, Tushar Khot, Ashish Sabharwal, Carissa Schoenick, and Oyvind Tafjord.
2018. Think you have solved question answering? try arc, the ai2 reasoning challenge. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05457
(2018).
[27] Hanjun Dai, Bo Dai, Yanming Zhang, Shuang Li, and Le Song. 2017. Recurrent Hidden Semi-Markov Model. In ICLR.
[28] Rajarshi Das, Ameya Godbole, Dilip Kavarthapu, Zhiyu Gong, Abhishek Singhal, Mo Yu, Xiaoxiao Guo, Tian Gao,
Hamed Zamani, Manzil Zaheer, et al. 2019. Multi-step entity-centric information retrieval for multi-hop question
answering. In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Machine Reading for Question Answering . 113–118.
[29] Pradeep Dasigi, Kyle Lo, Iz Beltagy, Arman Cohan, Noah A. Smith, and Matt Gardner. 2021. A Dataset of Information-
Seeking Questions and Answers Anchored in Research Papers. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies . Association for
Computational Linguistics, Online, 4599–4610. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.naacl-main.365
[30] Nicola De Cao, Wilker Aziz, and Ivan Titov. 2019. Question Answering by Reasoning Across Documents with Graph
Convolutional Networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) . 2306–2317.
[31] Dorottya Demszky, Kelvin Guu, and Percy Liang. 2018. Transforming Question Answering Datasets Into Natural
Language Inference Datasets. CoRR abs/1809.02922 (2018). arXiv:1809.02922 http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.02922
[32] Dennis Diefenbach, Vanessa Lopez, Kamal Singh, and Pierre Maret. 2018. Core techniques of question answering
systems over knowledge bases: a survey. Knowledge and Information systems 55, 3 (2018), 529–569.
[33] Eleftherios Dimitrakis, Konstantinos Sgontzos, and Yannis Tzitzikas. 2020. A survey on question answering systems
over linked data and documents. Journal of intelligent information systems 55, 2 (2020), 233–259.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 38]]
111:38 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
[34] Ming Ding, Chang Zhou, Qibin Chen, Hongxia Yang, and Jie Tang. 2019. Cognitive Graph for Multi-Hop Reading
Comprehension at Scale. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics .
Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 2694–2703. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P19-1259
[35] Xinya Du, Junru Shao, and Claire Cardie. 2017. Learning to Ask: Neural Question Generation for Reading Comprehen-
sion. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) .
Association for Computational Linguistics, Vancouver, Canada, 1342–1352. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17-1123
[36] Dheeru Dua, Cicero dos Santos, Patrick Ng, Ben Athiwaratkun, Bing Xiang, Matt Gardner, and Sameer Singh. 2021.
Generative Context Pair Selection for Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing . 7009–7015.
[37] Dheeru Dua, Sameer Singh, and Matt Gardner. 2020. Benefits of Intermediate Annotations in Reading Compre-
hension. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics . Association for
Computational Linguistics, Online, 5627–5634. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.acl-main.497
[38] Dheeru Dua, Yizhong Wang, Pradeep Dasigi, Gabriel Stanovsky, Sameer Singh, and Matt Gardner. 2019. DROP: A
Reading Comprehension Benchmark Requiring Discrete Reasoning Over Paragraphs. In Proceedings of the 2019 Con-
ference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) . Association for Computational Linguistics, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 2368–2378.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1246
[39] Angela Fan, Claire Gardent, Chloé Braud, and Antoine Bordes. 2019. Using Local Knowledge Graph Construction to
Scale Seq2Seq Models to Multi-Document Inputs. InProceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) .
Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, 4186–4196. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-1428
[40] Yuwei Fang, Siqi Sun, Zhe Gan, Rohit Pillai, Shuohang Wang, and Jingjing Liu. 2020. Hierarchical Graph Network
for Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing (EMNLP). 8823–8838.
[41] Yair Feldman and Ran El-Yaniv. 2019. Multi-Hop Paragraph Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering. In
Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics . Association for Computational
Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 2296–2309. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P19-1222
[42] Yufei Feng, Mo Yu, Wenhan Xiong, Xiaoxiao Guo, Junjie Huang, Shiyu Chang, Murray Campbell, Michael Greenspan,
and Xiaodan Zhu. 2020. Learning to recover reasoning chains for multi-hop question answering via cooperative
games. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.02393 (2020).
[43] Bin Fu, Yunqi Qiu, Chengguang Tang, Yang Li, Haiyang Yu, and Jian Sun. 2020. A survey on complex question
answering over knowledge base: Recent advances and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.13069 (2020).
[44] Yifan Gao, Jianan Wang, Lidong Bing, Irwin King, and Michael R. Lyu. 2018. Difficulty Controllable Question
Generation for Reading Comprehension. CoRR abs/1807.03586 (2018). arXiv:1807.03586 http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.
03586
[45] Albert Gatt and Emiel Krahmer. 2018. Survey of the state of the art in natural language generation: Core tasks,
applications and evaluation. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 61 (2018), 65–170.
[46] Mor Geva, Yoav Goldberg, and Jonathan Berant. 2019. Are We Modeling the Task or the Annotator? An Investigation of
Annotator Bias in Natural Language Understanding Datasets. InProceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-
IJCNLP). Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, 1161–1166. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-
1107
[47] Mor Geva, Eric Malmi, Idan Szpektor, and Jonathan Berant. 2019. DiscoFuse: A Large-Scale Dataset for Discourse-
Based Sentence Fusion. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) . 3443–3455.
[48] Demian Gholipour Ghalandari and Georgiana Ifrim. 2020. Examining the state-of-the-art in news timeline summa-
rization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.10107 (2020).
[49] Leilani H Gilpin, David Bau, Ben Z Yuan, Ayesha Bajwa, Michael Specter, and Lalana Kagal. 2018. Explaining
explanations: An overview of interpretability of machine learning. In 2018 IEEE 5th International Conference on data
science and advanced analytics (DSAA) . IEEE, 80–89.
[50] Jade Goldstein, Vibhu O Mittal, Jaime G Carbonell, and Mark Kantrowitz. 2000. Multi-document summarization by
sentence extraction. In NAACL-ANLP 2000 workshop: automatic summarization.
[51] Alex Graves, Greg Wayne, and Ivo Danihelka. 2014. Neural turing machines. arXiv preprint arXiv:1410.5401 (2014).
[52] Jiatao Gu, Zhengdong Lu, Hang Li, and Victor O.K. Li. 2016. Incorporating Copying Mechanism in Sequence-to-
Sequence Learning. InProceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Berlin, Germany, 1631–1640. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P16-
1154
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 39]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:39
[53] Caglar Gulcehre, Sungjin Ahn, Ramesh Nallapati, Bowen Zhou, and Yoshua Bengio. 2016. Pointing the Unknown
Words. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Berlin, Germany, 140–149. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P16-1014
[54] Deepak Gupta, Hardik Chauhan, Ravi Tej Akella, Asif Ekbal, and Pushpak Bhattacharyya. 2020. Reinforced Multi-task
Approach for Multi-hop Question Generation. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational
Linguistics. 2760–2775.
[55] Suchin Gururangan, Swabha Swayamdipta, Omer Levy, Roy Schwartz, Samuel Bowman, and Noah A. Smith. 2018.
Annotation Artifacts in Natural Language Inference Data. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers) .
Association for Computational Linguistics, New Orleans, Louisiana, 107–112. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N18-2017
[56] Aria Haghighi and Lucy Vanderwende. 2009. Exploring content models for multi-document summarization. In
Proceedings of human language technologies: The 2009 annual conference of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics. 362–370.
[57] Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Saurav Kadavath, Akul Arora, Steven Basart, Eric Tang, Dawn Song, and Jacob
Steinhardt. 2021. Measuring mathematical problem solving with the math dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.03874
(2021).
[58] Karl Moritz Hermann, Tomas Kocisky, Edward Grefenstette, Lasse Espeholt, Will Kay, Mustafa Suleyman, and Phil
Blunsom. 2015. Teaching machines to read and comprehend. Advances in neural information processing systems 28
(2015).
[59] Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 1997. Long short-term memory.Neural computation 9, 8 (1997), 1735–1780.
[60] Konrad Höffner, Sebastian Walter, Edgard Marx, Ricardo Usbeck, Jens Lehmann, and Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo.
2017. Survey on challenges of question answering in the semantic web. Semantic Web 8, 6 (2017), 895–920.
[61] Yongjie Huang and Meng Yang. 2021. Breadth First Reasoning Graph for Multi-hop Question Answering. InProceedings
of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies. Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 5810–5821. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.naacl-
main.464
[62] Naoya Inoue, Pontus Stenetorp, and Kentaro Inui. 2020. R4C: A Benchmark for Evaluating RC Systems to Get the Right
Answer for the Right Reason. InProceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics .
Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 6740–6750. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.acl-main.602
[63] Peter Jansen. 2018. Multi-hop Inference for Sentence-level TextGraphs: How Challenging is Meaningfully Combining
Information for Science Question Answering?. In Proceedings of the Twelfth Workshop on Graph-Based Methods for
Natural Language Processing (TextGraphs-12). 12–17.
[64] Peter Jansen, Elizabeth Wainwright, Steven Marmorstein, and Clayton Morrison. 2018. WorldTree: A Corpus of
Explanation Graphs for Elementary Science Questions supporting Multi-hop Inference. In Proceedings of the Eleventh
International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2018). European Language Resources Association
(ELRA), Miyazaki, Japan. https://aclanthology.org/L18-1433
[65] Kalervo Järvelin and Jaana Kekäläinen. 2002. Cumulated Gain-Based Evaluation of IR Techniques. ACM Trans. Inf.
Syst. 20, 4 (oct 2002), 422–446. https://doi.org/10.1145/582415.582418
[66] Harsh Jhamtani and Peter Clark. 2020. Learning to Explain: Datasets and Models for Identifying Valid Reasoning
Chains in Multihop Question-Answering. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP). Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 137–150. https://doi.org/10.18653/
v1/2020.emnlp-main.10
[67] Robin Jia and Percy Liang. 2017. Adversarial Examples for Evaluating Reading Comprehension Systems. InProceedings
of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing . 2021–2031.
[68] Qiao Jin, Zheng Yuan, Guangzhi Xiong, Qianlan Yu, Huaiyuan Ying, Chuanqi Tan, Mosha Chen, Songfang Huang,
Xiaozhong Liu, and Sheng Yu. 2022. Biomedical Question Answering: A Survey of Approaches and Challenges. ACM
Computing Surveys (CSUR) 55, 2 (2022), 1–36.
[69] Rudolf Kadlec, Ondrej Bajgar, and Jan Kleindienst. 2017. Knowledge Base Completion: Baselines Strike Back. In
Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Representation Learning for NLP . Association for Computational Linguistics,
Vancouver, Canada, 69–74. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/W17-2609
[70] Jacob Devlin Ming-Wei Chang Kenton and Lee Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional
Transformers for Language Understanding. In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT. 4171–4186.
[71] Daniel Khashabi, Snigdha Chaturvedi, Michael Roth, Shyam Upadhyay, and Dan Roth. 2018. Looking beyond the
surface: A challenge set for reading comprehension over multiple sentences. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1
(Long Papers). 252–262.
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 40]]
111:40 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
[72] Tushar Khot, Peter Clark, Michal Guerquin, Peter Jansen, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2020. Qasc: A dataset for question
answering via sentence composition. InProceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 34. 8082–8090.
[73] Tushar Khot, Ashish Sabharwal, and Peter Clark. 2019. What’s Missing: A Knowledge Gap Guided Approach for
Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) . 2814–2828.
[74] Jin-Hwa Kim, Jaehyun Jun, and Byoung-Tak Zhang. 2018. Bilinear attention networks.Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 31 (2018).
[75] Thomas N. Kipf and Max Welling. 2016. Semi-Supervised Classification with Graph Convolutional Networks. CoRR
abs/1609.02907 (2016). arXiv:1609.02907 http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.02907
[76] Thomas N. Kipf and Max Welling. 2016. Semi-Supervised Classification with Graph Convolutional Networks. CoRR
abs/1609.02907 (2016). arXiv:1609.02907 http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.02907
[77] Tomáš Kočisk`y, Jonathan Schwarz, Phil Blunsom, Chris Dyer, Karl Moritz Hermann, Gábor Melis, and Edward
Grefenstette. 2018. The narrativeqa reading comprehension challenge.Transactions of the Association for Computational
Linguistics 6 (2018), 317–328.
[78] Olga Kovaleva, Alexey Romanov, Anna Rogers, and Anna Rumshisky. 2019. Revealing the Dark Secrets of BERT. In
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) . Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong,
China, 4365–4374. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-1445
[79] Vishwajeet Kumar, Yuncheng Hua, Ganesh Ramakrishnan, Guilin Qi, Lianli Gao, and Yuan-Fang Li. 2019. Difficulty-
controllable multi-hop question generation from knowledge graphs. In International Semantic Web Conference .
Springer, 382–398.
[80] Ghader Kurdi, Jared Leo, Bijan Parsia, Uli Sattler, and Salam Al-Emari. 2019. A Systematic Review of Automatic
Question Generation for Educational Purposes. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education 30 (11 2019).
https://doi.org/10.1007/s40593-019-00186-y
[81] Matt Kusner, Yu Sun, Nicholas Kolkin, and Kilian Weinberger. 2015. From word embeddings to document distances.
In International conference on machine learning . PMLR, 957–966.
[82] Yunshi Lan, Gaole He, Jinhao JIANG, Jing JIANG, Wayne Xin ZHAO, and Ji-Rong WEN. 2021. A survey on complex
knowledge base question answering: Methods, challenges and solutions. IJCAI.
[83] Zhenzhong Lan, Mingda Chen, Sebastian Goodman, Kevin Gimpel, Piyush Sharma, and Radu Soricut. 2019. ALBERT:
A Lite BERT for Self-supervised Learning of Language Representations. In International Conference on Learning
Representations.
[84] Logan Lebanoff, John Muchovej, Franck Dernoncourt, Doo Soon Kim, Seokhwan Kim, Walter Chang, and Fei Liu.
2019. Analyzing Sentence Fusion in Abstractive Summarization. In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on New Frontiers
in Summarization. 104–110.
[85] Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman Mohamed, Omer Levy, Veselin Stoyanov,
and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2019. BART: Denoising Sequence-to-Sequence Pre-training for Natural Language Generation,
Translation, and Comprehension. CoRR abs/1910.13461 (2019). arXiv:1910.13461 http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.13461
[86] Jiwei Li, Will Monroe, Tianlin Shi, Sébastien Jean, Alan Ritter, and Dan Jurafsky. 2017. Adversarial Learning for Neural
Dialogue Generation. In Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing .
Association for Computational Linguistics, Copenhagen, Denmark, 2157–2169. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D17-1230
[87] Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. ROUGE: A Package for Automatic Evaluation of Summaries. In Text Summarization Branches
Out. Association for Computational Linguistics, Barcelona, Spain, 74–81. https://aclanthology.org/W04-1013
[88] Zhihong Lin, Donghao Zhang, Qingyi Tac, Danli Shi, Gholamreza Haffari, Qi Wu, Mingguang He, and Zongyuan Ge.
2021. Medical Visual Question Answering: A Survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.10056 (2021).
[89] David Lindberg, Fred Popowich, John Nesbit, and Phil Winne. 2013. Generating Natural Language Questions to
Support Learning On-Line. In Proceedings of the 14th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation . Association
for Computational Linguistics, Sofia, Bulgaria, 105–114. https://aclanthology.org/W13-2114
[90] Ling Liu and M Tamer Özsu. 2009. Mean average precision. Encyclopedia of Database Systems2009 1703 (2009).
[91] Xiaodong Liu, Yelong Shen, Kevin Duh, and Jianfeng Gao. 2018. Stochastic Answer Networks for Machine Reading
Comprehension. In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Melbourne, Australia, 1694–1704. https://doi.org/10.18653/
v1/P18-1157
[92] Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer,
and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692
(2019).
[93] Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D. Manning. 2015. Effective Approaches to Attention-based Neural
Machine Translation. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing .
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 41]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:41
Association for Computational Linguistics, Lisbon, Portugal, 1412–1421. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D15-1166
[94] Congbo Ma, Wei Emma Zhang, Mingyu Guo, Hu Wang, and Quan Z Sheng. 2020. Multi-document summarization
via deep learning techniques: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.04843 (2020).
[95] Christopher Malon and Bing Bai. 2020. Generating followup questions for interpretable multi-hop question answering.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.12344 (2020).
[96] Francisco Melo. 2013.Area under the ROC Curve. Springer New York, New York, NY, 38–39. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
1-4419-9863-7_209
[97] Todor Mihaylov, Peter Clark, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2018. Can a Suit of Armor Conduct Electricity?
A New Dataset for Open Book Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing. 2381–2391.
[98] George A. Miller. 1995. WordNet: A Lexical Database for English. Commun. ACM 38, 11 (nov 1995), 39–41. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/219717.219748
[99] Sewon Min, Julian Michael, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020. AmbigQA: Answering ambiguous
open-domain questions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.10645 (2020).
[100] Sewon Min, Eric Wallace, Sameer Singh, Matt Gardner, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2019. Com-
positional Questions Do Not Necessitate Multi-hop Reasoning. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics . Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 4249–4257.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P19-1416
[101] Sewon Min, Victor Zhong, Richard Socher, and Caiming Xiong. 2018. Efficient and Robust Question Answering from
Minimal Context over Documents. In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) . Association for Computational Linguistics, Melbourne, Australia, 1725–1735.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P18-1160
[102] Sewon Min, Victor Zhong, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2019. Multi-hop Reading Comprehension
through Question Decomposition and Rescoring. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 6097–6109. https://doi.org/10.
18653/v1/P19-1613
[103] Amit Mishra and Sanjay Kumar Jain. 2016. A survey on question answering systems with classification. Journal of
King Saud University-Computer and Information Sciences 28, 3 (2016), 345–361.
[104] Mir Tafseer Nayeem, Tanvir Ahmed Fuad, and Yllias Chali. 2018. Abstractive unsupervised multi-document sum-
marization using paraphrastic sentence fusion. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Computational
Linguistics. 1191–1204.
[105] Preksha Nema and Mitesh M. Khapra. 2018. Towards a Better Metric for Evaluating Question Generation Systems. In
Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational
Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium, 3950–3959. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D18-1429
[106] Jekaterina Novikova, Ondřej Dušek, Amanda Cercas Curry, and Verena Rieser. 2017. Why We Need New Evaluation
Metrics for NLG. InProceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association
for Computational Linguistics, Copenhagen, Denmark, 2241–2252. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D17-1238
[107] Liangming Pan, Wenhu Chen, Wenhan Xiong, Min-Yen Kan, and William Yang Wang. 2021. Unsupervised Multi-hop
Question Answering by Question Generation. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies . 5866–5880.
[108] Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation
of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics .
311–318.
[109] Arkil Patel, Satwik Bhattamishra, and Navin Goyal. 2021. Are NLP Models really able to Solve Simple Math Word
Problems?. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies. 2080–2094.
[110] Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher D Manning. 2014. Glove: Global vectors for word representation.
In Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP) . 1532–1543.
[111] Matthew E. Peters, Mark Neumann, Mohit Iyyer, Matt Gardner, Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, and Luke Zettlemoyer.
2018. Deep Contextualized Word Representations. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers) . Association
for Computational Linguistics, New Orleans, Louisiana, 2227–2237. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N18-1202
[112] Peng Qi, Xiaowen Lin, Leo Mehr, Zijian Wang, and Christopher D. Manning. 2019. Answering Complex Open-domain
Questions Through Iterative Query Generation. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) .
Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, 2590–2602. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-1261
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 42]]
111:42 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
[113] Lin Qiu, Yunxuan Xiao, Yanru Qu, Hao Zhou, Lei Li, Weinan Zhang, and Yong Yu. 2019. Dynamically Fused Graph
Network for Multi-hop Reasoning. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 6140–6150. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P19-
1617
[114] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li,
and Peter J. Liu. 2019. Exploring the Limits of Transfer Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text Transformer. CoRR
abs/1910.10683 (2019). arXiv:1910.10683 http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.10683
[115] Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and Percy Liang. 2016. SQuAD: 100,000+ Questions for Machine
Comprehension of Text. In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing .
Association for Computational Linguistics, Austin, Texas, 2383–2392. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D16-1264
[116] Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and Percy Liang. 2016. SQuAD: 100,000+ Questions for Machine
Comprehension of Text. In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing .
2383–2392.
[117] Steven J. Rennie, Etienne Marcheret, Youssef Mroueh, Jerret Ross, and Vaibhava Goel. 2017. Self-Critical Sequence
Training for Image Captioning. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR).
[118] David E Rumelhart, Geoffrey E Hinton, and Ronald J Williams. 1985. Learning internal representations by error
propagation. Technical Report. California Univ San Diego La Jolla Inst for Cognitive Science.
[119] Devendra Singh Sachan, Lingfei Wu, Mrinmaya Sachan, and William Hamilton. 2020. Stronger Transformers for
Neural Multi-Hop Question Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.11374 (2020).
[120] Mrinmaya Sachan and Eric Xing. 2016. Easy Questions First? A Case Study on Curriculum Learning for Question
Answering. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Berlin, Germany, 453–463. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P16-1043
[121] Marzieh Saeidi, Max Bartolo, Patrick Lewis, Sameer Singh, Tim Rocktäschel, Mike Sheldon, Guillaume Bouchard, and
Sebastian Riedel. 2018. Interpretation of Natural Language Rules in Conversational Machine Reading. In EMNLP.
[122] Wojciech Samek, Thomas Wiegand, and Klaus-Robert Müller. 2017. Explainable artificial intelligence: Understanding,
visualizing and interpreting deep learning models. arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.08296 (2017).
[123] Michael Schlichtkrull, Thomas N Kipf, Peter Bloem, Rianne Van Den Berg, Ivan Titov, and Max Welling. 2017.
Modeling Relational Data with Graph Convolutional Networks (2017). Preprint (2017).
[124] Moritz Schubotz, Philipp Scharpf, Kaushal Dudhat, Yash Nagar, Felix Hamborg, and Bela Gipp. 2018. Introducing
mathqa: a math-aware question answering system. Information Discovery and Delivery (2018).
[125] Thomas Scialom, Benjamin Piwowarski, and Jacopo Staiano. 2019. Self-Attention Architectures for Answer-Agnostic
Neural Question Generation. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics .
Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 6027–6032. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P19-1604
[126] Abigail See, Peter J Liu, and Christopher D Manning. 2017. Get To The Point: Summarization with Pointer-Generator
Networks. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers). 1073–1083.
[127] Min Joon Seo, Aniruddha Kembhavi, Ali Farhadi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2016. Bidirectional Attention Flow for
Machine Comprehension. CoRR abs/1611.01603 (2016). arXiv:1611.01603 http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.01603
[128] Nan Shao, Yiming Cui, Ting Liu, Shijin Wang, and Guoping Hu. 2020. Is Graph Structure Necessary for Multi-hop
Question Answering?. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP). 7187–7192.
[129] Nan Shao, Yiming Cui, Ting Liu, Shijin Wang, and Guoping Hu. 2021. Memory augmented sequential paragraph
retrieval for multi-hop question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.03741 (2021).
[130] Georgios Sidiropoulos, Nikos Voskarides, Svitlana Vakulenko, and Evangelos Kanoulas. 2021. Combining Lexical and
Dense Retrieval for Computationally Efficient Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the Second Workshop
on Simple and Efficient Natural Language Processing . 58–63.
[131] Georgios Sidiropoulos, Nikos Voskarides, Svitlana Vakulenko, and Evangelos Kanoulas. 2021. Combining Lexical
and Dense Retrieval for Computationally Efficient Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the Second
Workshop on Simple and Efficient Natural Language Processing . Association for Computational Linguistics, Virtual,
58–63. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.sustainlp-1.7
[132] Marco Antonio Calijorne Soares and Fernando Silva Parreiras. 2020. A literature review on question answering
techniques, paradigms and systems. Journal of King Saud University-Computer and Information Sciences 32, 6 (2020),
635–646.
[133] Linfeng Song, Zhiguo Wang, Mo Yu, Yue Zhang, Radu Florian, and Daniel Gildea. 2018. Exploring graph-structured pas-
sage representation for multi-hop reading comprehension with graph neural networks.arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.02040
(2018).
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 43]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:43
[134] Robyn Speer, Joshua Chin, and Catherine Havasi. 2016. ConceptNet 5.5: An Open Multilingual Graph of General
Knowledge. Singh 2002 (2016). arXiv preprint arxiv:1612.03975 (2016).
[135] Yash Srivastava, Vaishnav Murali, Shiv Ram Dubey, and Snehasis Mukherjee. 2020. Visual question answering
using deep learning: A survey and performance analysis. In International Conference on Computer Vision and Image
Processing. Springer, 75–86.
[136] Julius Steen and Katja Markert. 2019. Abstractive timeline summarization. In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on New
Frontiers in Summarization. 21–31.
[137] Dan Su, Yan Xu, Wenliang Dai, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, and Pascale Fung. 2020. Multi-hop Question Generation with
Graph Convolutional Network. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020 . 4636–4647.
[138] Haitian Sun, William W Cohen, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. 2021. Iterative Hierarchical Attention for Answering
Complex Questions over Long Documents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.00200 (2021).
[139] Alon Talmor and Jonathan Berant. 2018. The Web as a Knowledge-Base for Answering Complex Questions. In
Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers) . Association for Computational Linguistics, New Orleans,
Louisiana, 641–651. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N18-1059
[140] Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Tao Qin, and Ming Zhou. 2017. Question Answering and Question Generation as Dual Tasks.
CoRR abs/1706.02027 (2017). arXiv:1706.02027 http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02027
[141] Yixuan Tang, Hwee Tou Ng, and Anthony Tung. 2021. Do Multi-Hop Question Answering Systems Know How
to Answer the Single-Hop Sub-Questions?. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Main Volume. Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 3244–3249.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.eacl-main.283
[142] Mokanarangan Thayaparan, Marco Valentino, Viktor Schlegel, and André Freitas. 2019. Identifying Supporting Facts
for Multi-hop Question Answering with Document Graph Networks. In Proceedings of the Thirteenth Workshop on
Graph-Based Methods for Natural Language Processing (TextGraphs-13) . 42–51.
[143] Adam Trischler, Tong Wang, Xingdi Yuan, Justin Harris, Alessandro Sordoni, Philip Bachman, and Kaheer Suleman.
2016. NewsQA: A Machine Comprehension Dataset. CoRR abs/1611.09830 (2016). arXiv:1611.09830 http://arxiv.org/
abs/1611.09830
[144] Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2020. Is Multihop QA in DiRe
Condition? Measuring and Reducing Disconnected Reasoning. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) . Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 8846–8863.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.712
[145] Harsh Trivedi, Heeyoung Kwon, Tushar Khot, Ashish Sabharwal, and Niranjan Balasubramanian. 2019. Repurposing
Entailment for Multi-Hop Question Answering Tasks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short
Papers). 2948–2958.
[146] Ming Tu, Kevin Huang, Guangtao Wang, Jing Huang, Xiaodong He, and Bowen Zhou. 2020. Select, answer and explain:
Interpretable multi-hop reading comprehension over multiple documents. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 34. 9073–9080.
[147] Aaron Van den Oord, Yazhe Li, and Oriol Vinyals. 2018. Representation learning with contrastive predictive coding.
arXiv e-prints (2018), arXiv–1807.
[148] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia
Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural information processing systems 30 (2017).
[149] Ramakrishna Vedantam, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. 2014. Cider: consensus-based image description
evaluation. CoRR. arXiv preprint arXiv:1411.5726 (2014).
[150] Petar Veličković, Guillem Cucurull, Arantxa Casanova, Adriana Romero, Pietro Liò, and Yoshua Bengio. 2018. Graph
Attention Networks. In International Conference on Learning Representations .
[151] Haoyu Wang, Mo Yu, Xiaoxiao Guo, Rajarshi Das, Wenhan Xiong, and Tian Gao. 2019. Do Multi-hop Readers Dream
of Reasoning Chains?. In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Machine Reading for Question Answering . 91–97.
[152] Jiexin Wang, Adam Jatowt, Michael Färber, and Masatoshi Yoshikawa. 2020. Answering Event-Related Questions over
Long-Term News Article Archives. InAdvances in Information Retrieval - 42nd European Conference on IR Research,
ECIR 2020, Lisbon, Portugal, April 14-17, 2020, Proceedings, Part I (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 12035) .
Springer, 774–789.
[153] Jiexin Wang, Adam Jatowt, Michael Färber, and Masatoshi Yoshikawa. 2021. Improving question answering for
event-focused questions in temporal collections of news articles. Inf. Retr. J. 24, 1 (2021), 29–54.
[154] Jiexin Wang, Adam Jatowt, and Masatoshi Yoshikawa. 2021. ArchivalQA: A Large-scale Benchmark Dataset for
Open Domain Question Answering over Archival News Collections. CoRR abs/2109.03438 (2021). arXiv:2109.03438
https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.03438
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 44]]
111:44 Trovato and Tobin, et al.
[155] Jiexin Wang, Adam Jatowt, and Masatoshi Yoshikawa. 2021. Event Occurrence Date Estimation based on Multivariate
Time Series Analysis over Temporal Document Collections. In SIGIR ’21: The 44th International ACM SIGIR Conference
on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, Virtual Event, Canada, July 11-15, 2021 . ACM, 398–407.
[156] Shuohang Wang and Jing Jiang. 2016. Machine comprehension using match-lstm and answer pointer. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1608.07905 (2016).
[157] Wenhui Wang, Nan Yang, Furu Wei, Baobao Chang, and Ming Zhou. 2017. Gated Self-Matching Networks for
Reading Comprehension and Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) . Association for Computational Linguistics, Vancouver, Canada,
189–198. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17-1018
[158] Daniela Brook Weiss, Paul Roit, Ori Ernst, and Ido Dagan. 2021. Extending Multi-Text Sentence Fusion Resources via
Pyramid Annotations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.04517 (2021).
[159] Johannes Welbl, Pontus Stenetorp, and Sebastian Riedel. 2018. Constructing datasets for multi-hop reading compre-
hension across documents. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics 6 (2018), 287–302.
[160] Sean Welleck, Ilia Kulikov, Stephen Roller, Emily Dinan, Kyunghyun Cho, and Jason Weston. 2019. Neural Text
Generation With Unlikelihood Training. In International Conference on Learning Representations .
[161] Adina Williams, Nikita Nangia, and Samuel Bowman. 2018. A Broad-Coverage Challenge Corpus for Sentence
Understanding through Inference. InProceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers) . Association for Computational
Linguistics, New Orleans, Louisiana, 1112–1122. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N18-1101
[162] Ronald J. Williams. 1992. Simple Statistical Gradient-Following Algorithms for Connectionist Reinforcement Learning.
Mach. Learn. 8, 3–4 (may 1992), 229–256. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00992696
[163] David S Wishart, Craig Knox, An Chi Guo, Dean Cheng, Savita Shrivastava, Dan Tzur, Bijaya Gautam, and Murtaza
Hassanali. 2008. DrugBank: a knowledgebase for drugs, drug actions and drug targets. Nucleic acids research 36,
suppl_1 (2008), D901–D906.
[164] Qi Wu, Damien Teney, Peng Wang, Chunhua Shen, Anthony Dick, and Anton van den Hengel. 2017. Visual question
answering: A survey of methods and datasets. Computer Vision and Image Understanding 163 (2017), 21–40.
[165] Yonghui Wu, Mike Schuster, Zhifeng Chen, Quoc V. Le, Mohammad Norouzi, Wolfgang Macherey, Maxim Krikun,
Yuan Cao, Qin Gao, Klaus Macherey, Jeff Klingner, Apurva Shah, Melvin Johnson, Xiaobing Liu, Lukasz Kaiser,
Stephan Gouws, Yoshikiyo Kato, Taku Kudo, Hideto Kazawa, Keith Stevens, George Kurian, Nishant Patil, Wei Wang,
Cliff Young, Jason Smith, Dason Riesa, Alex Rudnick, Oriol Vinyals, Greg Corrado, Macduff Hughes, and Jeffrey Dean.
2016. Google’s Neural Machine Translation System: Bridging the Gap between Human and Machine Translation.
CoRR abs/1609.08144 (2016). arXiv:1609.08144 http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.08144
[166] Wenhan Xiong, Xiang Lorraine Li, Srinivasan Iyer, Jingfei Du, Patrick S. H. Lewis, William Yang Wang, Yashar Mehdad,
Wen-tau Yih, Sebastian Riedel, Douwe Kiela, and Barlas Oguz. 2020. Answering Complex Open-Domain Questions
with Multi-Hop Dense Retrieval. CoRR abs/2009.12756 (2020). arXiv:2009.12756 https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.12756
[167] Wenhan Xiong, Mo Yu, Xiaoxiao Guo, Hong Wang, Shiyu Chang, Murray Campbell, and William Yang Wang. 2019.
Simple yet Effective Bridge Reasoning for Open-Domain Multi-Hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2nd
Workshop on Machine Reading for Question Answering . 48–52.
[168] Vikas Yadav, Steven Bethard, and Mihai Surdeanu. 2019. Alignment over Heterogeneous Embeddings for Question
Answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics,
Minneapolis, Minnesota, 2681–2691. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1274
[169] Vikas Yadav, Steven Bethard, and Mihai Surdeanu. 2019. Quick and (not so) Dirty: Unsupervised Selection of
Justification Sentences for Multi-hop Question Answering. InProceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, 2578–2589. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-1260
[170] Vikas Yadav, Steven Bethard, and Mihai Surdeanu. 2020. Unsupervised Alignment-based Iterative Evidence Retrieval
for Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics. 4514–4525.
[171] Vikas Yadav, Steven Bethard, and Mihai Surdeanu. 2021. If You Want to Go Far Go Together: Unsupervised Joint
Candidate Evidence Retrieval for Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies . 4571–4581.
[172] Rui Yan, Xiaojun Wan, Jahna Otterbacher, Liang Kong, Xiaoming Li, and Yan Zhang. 2011. Evolutionary timeline
summarization: a balanced optimization framework via iterative substitution. In Proceedings of the 34th international
ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in Information Retrieval . 745–754.
[173] Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D
Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A Dataset for Diverse, Explainable Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

[[page 45]]
A Survey on Multi-hop Question Answering and Generation 111:45
2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing . 2369–2380.
[174] Kaichun Yao, Libo Zhang, Tiejian Luo, Lili Tao, and Yanjun Wu. 2018. Teaching Machines to Ask Questions. In
Proceedings of the Twenty-Seventh International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-18 . International Joint
Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization, 4546–4552. https://doi.org/10.24963/ijcai.2018/632
[175] Deming Ye, Yankai Lin, Zhenghao Liu, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2019. Multi-paragraph reasoning with
knowledge-enhanced graph neural network. arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.02170 (2019).
[176] Jianxing Yu, Wei Liu, Shuang Qiu, Qinliang Su, Kai Wang, Xiaojun Quan, and Jian Yin. 2020. Low-Resource Generation
of Multi-hop Reasoning Questions. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 6729–6739. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.acl-
main.601
[177] Yi Yu, Adam Jatowt, Antoine Doucet, Kazunari Sugiyama, and Masatoshi Yoshikawa. 2021. Multi-TimeLine Summa-
rization (MTLS): Improving Timeline Summarization by Generating Multiple Summaries. In Proceedings of the 59th
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural
Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers) . Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 377–387.
[178] Munazza Zaib, Wei Emma Zhang, Quan Z Sheng, Adnan Mahmood, and Yang Zhang. 2021. Conversational question
answering: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.00874 (2021).
[179] Min Zhang, Feng Li, Yang Wang, Zequn Zhang, Yanhai Zhou, and Xiaoyu Li. 2020. Coarse and Fine Granularity
Graph Reasoning for Interpretable Multi-Hop Question Answering. IEEE Access 8 (2020), 56755–56765. https:
//doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2981134
[180] Xingxing Zhang and Mirella Lapata. 2017. Sentence Simplification with Deep Reinforcement Learning. In Proceedings
of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics,
Copenhagen, Denmark, 584–594. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D17-1062
[181] Yuyu Zhang, Ping Nie, Arun Ramamurthy, and Le Song. 2021. Answering Any-hop Open-domain Questions with
Iterative Document Reranking. In Proceedings of the 44th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and
Development in Information Retrieval . 481–490.
[182] Yao Zhao, Xiaochuan Ni, Yuanyuan Ding, and Qifa Ke. 2018. Paragraph-level Neural Question Generation with
Maxout Pointer and Gated Self-attention Networks. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing . Association for Computational Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium, 3901–3910. https:
//doi.org/10.18653/v1/D18-1424
[183] Yao Zhao, Xiaochuan Ni, Yuanyuan Ding, and Qifa Ke. 2018. Paragraph-level Neural Question Generation with
Maxout Pointer and Gated Self-attention Networks. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing . Association for Computational Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium, 3901–3910. https:
//doi.org/10.18653/v1/D18-1424
[184] Fengbin Zhu, Wenqiang Lei, Chao Wang, Jianming Zheng, Soujanya Poria, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2021. Retrieving and
reading: A comprehensive survey on open-domain question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.00774 (2021).
J. ACM, Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.