[[page 1]]
Retrieve, Summarize, Plan: Advancing Multi-hop Question
Answering with an Iterative Approach
Zhouyu Jiang
Ant Group
Shanghai, China
jiangzhouyu.jzy@antgroup.com
Mengshu Sun
Ant Group
Beijing, China
mengshu.sms@antgroup.com
Zhiqiang Zhang
Ant Group
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
lingyao.zzq@antgroup.com
Lei Liang
Ant Group
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
leywar.liang@antgroup.com
Abstract
Multi-hop question answering is a challenging task with distinct
industrial relevance, and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
methods based on large language models (LLMs) have become a
popular approach to tackle this task. Owing to the potential in-
ability to retrieve all necessary information in a single iteration,
a series of iterative RAG methods has been recently developed,
showing significant performance improvements. However, existing
methods still face two critical challenges: context overload resulting
from multiple rounds of retrieval, and over-planning and repeti-
tive planning due to the lack of a recorded retrieval trajectory. In
this paper, we propose a novel iterative RAG method called ReSP,
equipped with a dual-function summarizer. This summarizer com-
presses information from retrieved documents, targeting both the
overarching question and the current sub-question concurrently.
Experimental results on the multi-hop question-answering datasets
HotpotQA and 2WikiMultihopQA demonstrate that our method
significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art, and exhibits excellent
robustness concerning context length.
CCS Concepts
• Information systems→ Question answering.
Keywords
Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Question Answering, LLMs
ACM Reference Format:
Zhouyu Jiang, Mengshu Sun, Zhiqiang Zhang, and Lei Liang. 2018. Retrieve,
Summarize, Plan: Advancing Multi-hop Question Answering with an Iter-
ative Approach. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference
title from your rights confirmation email (Conference acronym ’XX). ACM,
New York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/18/06
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1 Introduction
Open-domain question answering is a task that involves providing
factual responses based on extensive documents [29, 37] and is of
significant application in hot industry scenarios such as intelligent
assistants and generative search engines [8, 22]. Multi-hop question
answering is one common and challenging sub-task within this
field, requiring the system to integrate information to complete
multi-step reasoning and answer questions [20].
With the rapid development of large language models (LLMs),
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) based on these LLMs has
become a popular method for addressing open-domain question
answering [4, 17, 19, 23, 26]. The typical RAG process involves
using a retriever to recall documents from a corpus that are rele-
vant to a given query and using these documents as context inputs
for the LLMs to generate responses. However, when dealing with
multi-hop question answering, conventional RAG techniques fre-
quently fall short of aggregating all the critical information within
a singular retrieval iteration, leading to incomplete or incorrect
answers. Consequently, a new genre of iterative RAG methods
that incorporate question planning has recently been developed
[2, 24, 28]. These methods assess after each retrieval whether the
information at hand is sufficient for answering the question. If it is
not, the methods generate a sub-question for the next step and per-
form another retrieval, iterating this process until the question can
be satisfactorily answered. Owing to the employment of multiple
retrieval iterations, iterative RAG has achieved a notable improve-
ment in multi-hop question-answering scenarios compared to the
single-round RAG approaches.
However, existing iterative RAG methods still encounter two
principal challenges when handling multi-hop question answering.
Firstly, due to multiple rounds of retrieval, iterative RAG methods
have to deal with a longer context in contrast to single-round RAG
methods, which consequently introduces more noise from the doc-
uments and increases the risk of the model missing key information
during response generation [18]. Secondly, current iterative RAG
methods are heavily dependent on the model’s interpretation of
retrieved documents for decision-making, lacking a concrete record
of the navigated trajectory. This makes it difficult for the model to
discern whether the information needed to answer the overarching
question has been sufficiently gathered and whether a sub-question
has already been retrieved, leading to two issues: an over-planning
scenario wherein the iterative process does not stop even despite
arXiv:2407.13101v2  [cs.CL]  30 Jan 2025

[[page 2]]
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY Jiang et al.
Question
Retriever
Documents
LLM
Maybenotenough
Question
Retriever
Documents
LLM
Context overload
Sub-question
Redundantplanning
Single-round RAG Iterative RAG
Figure 1: RAG pipelines illustration and challenges faced.
sufficient information has been retrieved, and a repetitive planning
scenario wherein a sub-question that has already been retrieved is
reproduced [36].
The two challenges mentioned previously are primarily related to
the effective processing of information obtained during the retrieval
phase. To tackle this, drawing inspiration from query-focused sum-
marization [5, 34], we introduce the ReSP (Retrieve, Summarize,
Plan) approach. This method not only condenses but also function-
ally decomposes the information accrued in each retrieval episode.
Specifically, we integrate a novel LLM-based summarizer within
the established iterative RAG framework and refine the iterative
process. The summarizer undertakes dual roles: firstly, it compiles
a summary of corroborative information from the retrieved docu-
ments for the overarching target question, termed the global evi-
dence memory ; secondly, it crafts a response for the current sub-
question based on the retrieved documents, termed the local path-
way memory. At the inception of each iteration, the accumulated
global evidence memory and local pathway memory are combined
as contextual inputs for the model’s evaluation. Should the infor-
mation be evaluated as adequate, the procedure advances to the
generation of the final response; otherwise, a new sub-question is
formulated, with the requirement that the model must not generate
previously retrieved sub-questions.
Our experimental findings reveal that, under uniform experi-
mental settings, the ReSP model markedly surpasses a range of
current single-round and iterative RAG approaches when evaluated
on multi-hop question-answering benchmarks such as HotpotQA
[35] and 2WikiMultihopQA [9]. Notably, it exhibits a substantial
enhancement in performance, with an increase of 4.1 F1 score over
the state-of-the-art (SOTA) on HotpotQA, and an improvement of
4.4 F1 score over the SOTA on 2WikiMultihopQA. Furthermore,
we conducted a series of in-depth comparative studies to discern
the effect of base model choice on its performance and confirmed
that ReSP possesses commendable robustness to context length
compared to other RAG methods.
In conclusion, our contributions are as follows:
• Targeting the multi-hop question-answering scenario, we
propose an innovative iterative RAG approach that incor-
porates query-focused summarization to tackle the context
overload problem resulting from multiple rounds of retrieval.
In particular, we have refined the summarizer’s function to
compress information aimed at both the overarching ques-
tion and the current sub-question, thereby optimizing issues
related to over-planning and repetitive planning.
• Experimental results show that our approach significantly
surpasses existing methods in performance, and it exhibits
considerable robustness to variations in context length.
2 Related Works
Retrieval-Augmented Generation. Retrieval-Augmented Gen-
eration (RAG) enhances LLMs by retrieving relevant documents
from external databases and integrating them into the generation
process [10, 13, 15, 17, 39]. Recent work can be divided into single-
round RAG [16, 25, 32] and iterative RAG [2, 12, 24, 28] based on
the number of retrieval rounds. In multi-hop question-answering
scenarios, iterative RAG often achieves better results because it
allows for detailed decomposition of the question. However, due to
the increased number of iterations, iterative RAG faces challenges
in long-context processing.
Query-focused summarization. Query-focused summariza-
tion (QFS) aims to extract or generate a summary of an input docu-
ment that directly answers or is relevant to a given query[5]. Due
to the higher requirements of QFS tasks regarding annotation accu-
racy and data diversity compared to typical summarization tasks,
data scarcity has long-limited performance improvement. Previous
work has mainly focused on dataset construction [ 3, 21, 33, 38],
proposing specialized datasets for scenarios such as news, debates,
and meetings.
Recent work has attempted to introduce QFS into single-round
RAG for refined information compression [ 7, 32]but has not ex-
tended to iterative RAG, nor has it decomposed the functions of
QFS. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to integrate QFS
with iterative RAG to address multi-hop question answering.
3 Preliminary
In this section, we formulate the task of single-round RAG and
iterative RAG.
3.1 Single-round RAG
Given a question𝑞 and a retrieval corpus𝐷 ={𝑑𝑖}|𝐷|
𝑖=1, the retrieval-
augmented LLM needs to generate an answer 𝑦 based on the re-
trieved documents relevant to the question. The process can be
represented as:
𝑦 = LLMGen([𝑞,𝐷𝑞], PromptGen) (1)
where𝐷𝑞 is the retrieved documents for the question𝑞. PromptGen
is the designated prompt for QA task. LLMGen is the role of LLM,
which focuses on QA task.
3.2 Iterative RAG
Compared to single-round RAG, iterative RAG introduces an eval-
uation and decision-making process for the current state in each

[[page 3]]
Retrieve, Summarize, Plan: Advancing Multi-hop Question Answering with an Iterative Approach Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY
Reasoner Retriever Summarizer
Global Evidence 
Memory 
Local Pathway 
Memory 
Generator
Top-k Documents
A
Q*
Overarching
Question
Planned
Sub-question
Output Answer
Q
QOverarching 
Question
Top-k 
Documents
Summarizer
 Q*
Top-k 
Documents
Planned
Sub-question Summarizer
Global Evidence 
Memory 
LocalPathway
Memory 
Judgement as ‘Yes’
Figure 2: The ReSP framework consists of four modules: Reasoner, Retriever, Summarizer, and Generator. The reasoner makes
decisions based on the current memory queues, determining whether to exit the iteration and generate a response or to produce
a sub-question for further iteration. The retriever searches the corpus based on the sub-question provided by the reasoner (for
the first iteration, the sub-question is the same as the overarching question, thus the reasonser is bypassed). The summarizer
performs dual summarization on the retrieved documents, extracting information relevant to both the overarching question Q
and the current sub-question Q*, and stores the summaries in the global evidence memory and local pathway memory queues
respectively. The generator produces answer A based on the information in the memory queues.
iteration. Specifically, in each iteration, the LLM will provide an
action𝑎, which has only binary values(exit, continue), and can be
represented as:
𝑎 = LLMjudge([𝑞,𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑒], Promptjudge) (2)
where𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑒 refers to the historical retrieved documents or the infor-
mation derived from them. Promptjudge is the designated prompt
for judgment. LLMjudge is an LLM used to assess the state and
provide action signals.
The next step is determined based on the value of𝑎:
𝑛𝑒𝑥𝑡 _𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑝 =
(
LLMplan([𝑞,𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑒], Promptplan),𝑎 = continue
answer_generation,𝑎 = exit
(3)
where Promptplan is the designated prompt for sub-question gener-
ation. LLMplan is an LLM for breaking down problems.
4 Methodology
Figure 2 illustrates our ReSP framework, which consists of four
components: Reasoner, Retriever, Summarizer, and Generator.
Essentially, Reasoner, Summarizer, and Generator are all based on
a fine-tuning-free LLM, designed to execute specific tasks using
an array of carefully selected prompt engineering techniques. For
specific prompt templates, please see Table 1. Our main contribution
lies in the Summarizer, while the design of the other modules is
similar to that of conventional iterative RAG methods.
4.1 Dual-Function Summarizer
As mentioned earlier, our goal is to address issues of context over-
load and redundant planning. To tackle context overload, a straight-
forward approach is to employ summarization to compress infor-
mation. However, even with summarization, the model still lacks
an explicit record of the planning path, which does not resolve the
issue of redundant planning. During the iterative process, over-
planning could arise if summaries overlook information crucial for
directly addressing the overarching question, or repetitive planning
might occur if the information difference between different rounds
of summaries is not significant. Therefore, a more sophisticated
design of the summarizer is necessary to distinguish the functions
of various pieces of information.
Drawing on the idea of query-focused summarization, we have
designed a dual-function summarizer. Confronted with retrieved
documents, this summarizer concurrently executes two tasks: pro-
ducing summaries of supporting information pertinent to the over-
arching question and generating responses for the current sub-
question, while managing two distinct memory queues–the global
evidence memory and the local pathway memory. Summaries re-
lated to the overarching question are deposited into the global
evidence memory, serving to explicitly signal the model to cease
iterations when information is enough, thus mitigating the risk
of over-planning. Concurrently, responses for the current sub-
question, alongside the sub-question itself, are stored in the local
pathway memory. This explicitly guides the model’s recognition

[[page 4]]
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY Jiang et al.
Table 1: The prompt templates of different modules in ReSP. The input parameters include Overarching question : the input
question; Sub-question: the current sub-question generated by the reasoner; Combined memory queues : the concatenated content
of the global evidence memory and local pathway memory queues for each iteration; docs: the documents retrieved from a
single round of retrieval.
Module Function Prompt
Reasoner
Judge
Judging based solely on the current known information and without allowing
for inference, are you able to completely and accurately respond to the question
Overarching question ? \nKnown information: Combined memory queues .
\nIf you can, please reply with "Yes" directly; if you cannot and need more
information, please reply with "No" directly.
Plan
You serve as an intelligent assistant, adept at facilitating users through com-
plex, multi-hop reasoning across multiple documents. Please understand the
information gap between the currently known information and the target
problem.Your task is to generate one thought in the form of question for next
retrieval step directly. DON’T generate the whole thoughts at once!\n DON’T
generate thought which has been retrieved.\n [Known information]: Combined
memory queues\n [Target question]:Overarching question\n [You Thought]:
Summarizer
Global Evidence
Passages: docs\nYour job is to act as a professional writer. You will write a good-
quality passage that can support the given prediction about the question only
based on the information in the provided supporting passages. Now, let’s start.
After you write, please write [DONE] to indicate you are done. Do not write
a prefix (e.g., "Response:") while writing a passage.\nQuestion:Overarching
question\nPassage:
Local Pathway
Judging based solely on the current known information and without allow-
ing for inference, are you able to respond completely and accurately to the
question Sub-question? \nKnown information: Combined memory queues .
If yes, please reply with "Yes", followed by an accurate response to the question
Sub-question, without restating the question; if no, please reply with "No"
directly.
Generator Response Generation
Answer the question based on the given reference. \nOnly give me the an-
swer and do not output any other words.\nThe following are given reference:
Combined memory queues\n Question: Overarching question
of the progress in the question planning path as well as the sub-
questions that have been historically retrieved, preventing repeti-
tive planning.
4.2 Summary-Enhanced Iterative RAG Process
Here we delineate the refined iterative RAG workflow that incor-
porates the dual-function summarizer. The pseudocode for the
algorithm implementation is shown as Algorithm 1.
Given a query Q and a document corpus D, we initially deploy a
retriever to identify the K documents from D that are most relative
to Q. These documents are then directed into the summarizer for
summary creation and memory queue updates (note that during
the first iteration, the sub-question is essentially the overarching
question, so there is no generation of response for the current sub-
question). Subsequently, the contents of the two memory queues
are concatenated to provide context input for the reasoner, which
is responsible for determining whether the current information is
sufficient to address the overarching question. Should it be adequate,
the iterative process is halted, and the memory queues are utilized
as context for the generator to produce the final answer. If the
information is insufficient, the reasoner generates a subsequent sub-
question Q* that is distinct from previously retrieved sub-questions
based on the current context, prompting the next iteration round.
5 Experimental Settings and Results
5.1 Datasets
We conduct experiments on two multi-hop question-answering
benchmark datasets: HotpotQA [ 35] and 2WikiMultihopQA [ 9].
These two datasets are both constructed based on Wikipedia doc-
uments, which enables the utilization of a consistent document
corpus and retrievers to provide external references for LLMs. Fol-
lowing the open-sourced RAG toolkit FlashRAG [14], we employ
its preprocessed dataset format. For each dataset, we utilize the
first 1,000 entries from the original development set for testing. We
report the token-level F1 score of answer strings to evaluate the
quality of the generation.
5.2 Experimental Setup
In our main experiments, we employ the Llama3-8B-instruct[1] as
the base model and E5-base-v2 [30] as the retriever. The retrieval

[[page 5]]
Retrieve, Summarize, Plan: Advancing Multi-hop Question Answering with an Iterative Approach Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY
Algorithm 1 Multi-hop QA through ReSP
Input: Overarching question𝑄, Document corpus𝐷, Retriever𝑅,
LLMs with different roles(𝐿𝐿𝑀𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑠𝑜𝑛,𝐿𝐿𝑀𝑆𝑢𝑚,𝐿𝐿𝑀𝐺𝑒𝑛), Max
number of iterations𝑀
𝑖𝑓 _𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑠ℎ𝑒𝑑 ← False
𝑟𝑢𝑛_𝑐𝑛𝑡← 0
𝑞←𝑄
𝑆𝐺𝑙𝑜𝑏𝑎𝑙 ←[]
𝑆𝐿𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑙←[]
while not𝑖𝑓 _𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑠ℎ𝑒𝑑 and𝑟𝑢𝑛_𝑐𝑛𝑡 <𝑀 do
𝑟𝑢𝑛_𝑐𝑛𝑡←𝑟𝑢𝑛_𝑐𝑛𝑡+ 1
𝐷𝑞←𝑅(𝑞)
if𝑞 ≠𝑄 then
𝑆𝐿𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑙←𝑆𝐿𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑙+𝐿𝐿𝑀𝑆𝑢𝑚([𝑞,𝐷𝑞], Promptlocal)
end if
𝑆𝐺𝑙𝑜𝑏𝑎𝑙 ←𝑆𝐺𝑙𝑜𝑏𝑎𝑙+𝐿𝐿𝑀𝑠𝑢𝑚([𝑄,𝐷𝑞], Promptglobal)
𝑖𝑓 _𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑠ℎ𝑒𝑑 ←𝐿𝐿𝑀𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑠𝑜𝑛([𝑄,𝑆𝐺𝑙𝑜𝑏𝑎𝑙,𝑆𝐿𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑙], Promptjudge)
if not𝑖𝑓 _𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑠ℎ𝑒𝑑 then
𝑄∗←𝐿𝐿𝑀𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑠𝑜𝑛([𝑄,𝑆𝐺𝑙𝑜𝑏𝑎𝑙,𝑆𝐿𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑙], Promptplan)
𝑞←𝑄∗
end if
end while
𝐴←𝐿𝐿𝑀𝐺𝑒𝑛([𝑄,𝑆𝐺𝑙𝑜𝑏𝑎𝑙,𝑆𝐿𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑙], PromptGen)
Output: Final answer𝐴
corpus comprises Wikipedia data from December 2018, consisting
of approximately 20 million pre-segmented passages. For the model
and data links, please refer to the FlashRAG open-source repository
1.
The model’s maximum input length is set to 12,000, and the
maximum output length is set to 200. For each query, we retrieve
the top-5 documents from the corpus based on vector similarity
as the result. The maximum number of iterations is set to 3. If the
retrieval process is still in iteration after 3 attempts, the model will
directly proceed to the final response generation. All experiments
are conducted on 4 NVIDIA A100 GPUs.
5.3 Baselines
We select representative methods from single-round RAG and iter-
ative RAG as baselines for comparison.
Direct Prompting: LLM directly generates answers without
retrieval.
Single-round RAG: Standard RAG directly generates answers
based on all retrieved documents. SuRe [16] constructs and ranks
summaries of the retrieved passages for each of the multiple answer
candidates. RECOMP [32] compresses retrieved documents into
textual summaries before in-context integration. REPLUG [25]
prepends each retrieved document separately to the input context
and ensembles output probabilities from different passes.
Iterative RAG: Iter-RetGen [24] leverages the model output
from the previous iteration as a specific context to help retrieve
more relevant knowledge. Self-RAG [2] enhances an LM’s quality
and factuality through retrieval and self-reflection. FLARE [12]
1https://github.com/RUC-NLPIR/FlashRAG
iteratively uses the upcoming sentence to anticipate future content,
which is then utilized as a query to retrieve relevant documents
to regenerate the sentence if it contains low-confidence tokens.
IRCoT [28] guides the retrieval with Chain-of-Thought (CoT) [31]
and in turn uses retrieved results to improve CoT.
5.4 Main Results
Our results on HotpotQA and 2WikiMultihopQA are displayed
in Table 2. First, we notice that iterative RAG, especially IRCoT,
demonstrates significant performance improvements compared to
single-round RAG. This suggests that conducting multiple rounds
of retrieval can indeed capture information more comprehensively
and produce more accurate responses. Second, within single-round
RAG, RECOMP, which incorporates summarization, exhibits su-
perior performance, indicating that summarization is an effective
method of information compression even within single-round RAG.
These findings validate the rationale behind our approach, which
combines multi-round retrieval with summarization.
Our method, ReSP, achieves significant improvements on both
datasets, outperforming the SOTA by4.1 F1 score on HotpotQA and
4.4 F1 score on 2WikiMultihopQA, surpassing a range of existing
iterative RAG methods. This demonstrates the effectiveness of the
approach we propose.
To analyze whether ReSP can address context overload and re-
dundant planning issues, we record key statistics during the model’s
execution.
Initially, concerning the issue of context overload, utilizing Hot-
potQA as an example, when the maximum number of iterations
is limited to three, the recorded average total word count of the
retrieved documents during the process is 509.59, while the average
word count of the evidence information provided to the generator
is 86.61, culminating in a compression ratio of 5.88. This indicates
that ReSP significantly compresses useful information during the
process, helping to prevent context overload.
Regarding redundant planning, ReSP exhibits an average itera-
tion count of 1.24 for HotpotQA and 1.60 for 2WikiMultihopQA,
while IRCoT has counts of 1.80 and 2.32, respectively. This indicates
that ReSP considerably minimizes planning steps.
Additionally, as shown in Table 3, we provide a comparison of
computation time. We record the runtime of standard RAG, IRCoT,
and ReSP on 200 instances, maintaining the same experimental en-
vironment described before. The results indicate that the iterative
ReSP takes longer compared to the single-round standard RAG,
which may make it less suitable for time-sensitive scenarios un-
less specialized engineering optimizations are performed. However,
compared to IRCoT, which is also an iterative method, ReSP signif-
icantly reduces runtime by compressing context and minimizing
redundant planning while achieving better performance.
It is noteworthy that ReSP allows for the exposure of both global
and local evidence information collected at each step of the problem-
solving process. This is particularly suitable for scenarios that de-
mand high transparency and trustworthiness of model outputs,
such as legal and medical fields. In these contexts, users can under-
stand how the problem is decomposed, how information is retrieved,

[[page 6]]
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY Jiang et al.
Table 2: Performance comparison on HotpotQA and 2WikiMultihopQA. All methods except Self-RAG utilize fine-tuning-free
Llama3-8B-instruct for generation. Self-RAG uses trained selfrag-llama2-7B released by authores. We run experiments five
times and report the average token-level F1 score of answer strings. The result of ReSP outperforms baseline models in t-test at
p < 0.05 level. The best results are in bold and the second best results are underlined.
Method Pipeline type HotpotQA 2WikiMultihopQA
Direct Prompting – 28.4 33.9
Standard RAG Single-round RAG 38.6 20.1
SuRe [16] Single-round RAG 33.4 20.6
RECOMP[32] Single-round RAG 37.5 32.4
REPLUG[25] Single-round RAG 31.2 21.1
Iter-RetGen[24] Iterative RAG 38.3 21.6
Self-RAG[2] Iterative RAG 29.6 25.1
FLARE [12] Iterative RAG 28.0 33.9
IRCoT[28] Iterative RAG 43.1 32.4
ReSP(ours) Iterative RAG 47.2 38.3
Table 3: Comparison of computation time.
Method HotpotQA 2WikiMultihopQA
Standard RAG 1.1min 1.2min
IRCoT 41.8min 48.2min
ReSP 9.5min 13.7min
and how the final answer is organized during the process. This ad-
vantage is not present in standard RAG and other iterative RAG
methods that do not record the retrieval process.
6 Empirical Analysis
To further analyze ReSP, we conduct comparative experiments to
investigate the adaptability across different open-source base mod-
els and the impact of the base model size on modules’ performance.
Additionally, we examine the method’s robustness concerning two
key variables: context length and maximum number of iterations.
Through case studies, we demonstrate that ReSP can mitigate the
issues of over-planning and repetitive planning.
6.1 Adaptability across different base models
Considering popularity, performance, and computational cost, we
utilized the open-source Llama3-8B-Instruct as the base model in
our main experiments to validate the effectiveness of our method.
In practical scenarios, there are many other base model series to
choose from. To assess the adaptability of our method across differ-
ent base model series, we select three open-source base models of
similar size to Llama3-8B-Instruct for experiments, maintaining con-
sistency in other experimental settings: Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct[27],
gemma-2-9b-it[11], and Deepseek-V2-Lite-Chat[6]. All models
can be available on HuggingFace234 .
The results on HotpotQA are shown in Figure 3. It can be ob-
served that, compared to Standard RAG and IRCoT, the ReSP method
2https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct
3https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-2-9b-it
4https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-V2-Lite-Chat
consistently achieves significant improvements across three differ-
ent base models. This demonstrates our method’s strong adaptabil-
ity to various base models.
Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct gemma-2-9b-it Deepseek-V2-Lite-Chat
Base model
0
10
20
30
40
50F1 Score
Standard RAG
IRCoT
ReSP
Figure 3: Performance comparison across different base mod-
els. We report the token-level F1 score obtained from testing
on the HotpotQA dataset.
6.2 Impact of the base model size
ReSP features a modular design, wherein each module works inde-
pendently, allowing for the use of different base models to collabo-
rate. To provide empirical guidance for model selection in practical
applications, we test how the size of the model affects the perfor-
mance of each module.
We substitute Llama3-70B-Instruct for Llama3-8B-Instruct and
use this larger model as the base for the Reasoner, Summarizer, and
Generator modules respectively, comparing the effect changes with
the original results. Table 4 presents our experimental results.
Firstly, regarding the reasoner module, the changes are inconsis-
tent across the two datasets, with an improvement on HotpotQA
but a decline on 2WikiMultihopQA. The reason for this inconsis-
tency is that 2WikiMultihopQA has questions with more logical

[[page 7]]
Retrieve, Summarize, Plan: Advancing Multi-hop Question Answering with an Iterative Approach Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY
Table 4: Impact of base model size on different modules.
Reasoner Summarizer Generator HotpotQA 2WikiMultihopQA
Llama3-8B-Instruct Llama3-8B-Instruct Llama3-8B-Instruct 47.2 38.3
Llama3-70B-Instruct Llama3-8B-Instruct Llama3-8B-Instruct 48.8(+1.6pt) 37.2(-1.1pt)
Llama3-8B-Instruct Llama3-70B-Instruct Llama3-8B-Instruct 47.3(+0.1pt) 34.1(-4.2pt)
Llama3-8B-Instruct Llama3-8B-Instruct Llama3-70B-Instruct 48.2(+1.0pt) 38.7(+0.4pt)
hops compared to HotpotQA. A larger model is likely to give more
detailed planning steps, leading to a failure to obtain all the neces-
sary information to answer the question within the set maximum
number of iterations, hence causing a drop in performance.
Secondly, for the summarizer module, we observe that using a
larger model size does not result in performance improvements; in
fact, there is a significant decline on 2WikiMultihopQA. Upon re-
viewing the summarization logs, we find that Llama3-70B-Instruct
is more lenient in discerning relevance. It tends to extract informa-
tion that seems related but is actually irrelevant to the question,
which can disrupt the planning and ultimately the generation of
responses.
Lastly, regarding the generator module, we observe consistent
improvements when using Llama3-70B-Instruct, which suggests
that even when provided with clear evidence, a model with stronger
semantic comprehension capabilities still aids in generating more
accurate responses.
In summary, in real-world applications, it is advisable to allo-
cate a larger base model to the generator, as long as the available
resources allow for it. However, for the reasoner module, if the
allowable number of iterations is low, there is no need to use a
larger base model. The summarizer also does not require a larger
base model.
6.3 Robustness to context length
Standard RAG IRCoT ReSP
Method
0
10
20
30
40
50F1 Score
Top-3
Top-5
Top-8
Top-10
Top-15
Figure 4: Bar chart of the performance variations of different
RAG methods with varying numbers of retrieved documents
per iteration. We report the token-level F1 score obtained
from testing on the HotpotQA dataset.
To further determine whether ReSP can address the issue of
context overload, we adjust the number of documents retrieved
per iteration and observe the changes in performance. Our com-
parison involves using standard RAG and IRCoT as control groups.
These experiments are carried out on the HotpotQA dataset. Re-
sults are shown in Figure 4. Firstly, when the number of documents
retrieved per iteration k is set to 3, all three methods experience a
notable decrease in performance. This indicates that the adequacy
of information retrieved in a single round significantly affects both
single-round and iterative RAG methods. Therefore, it is necessary
to extend the context length during application appropriately.
When k is greater than 5, the standard RAG and IRCoT exhibit
a performance degradation trend. Particularly, IRCoT, which uti-
lizes iterative retrieval, suffers from a more significant performance
drop due to the accumulation of retrieved information. This demon-
strates that context overload has a pervasive impact on existing
RAG methods.
Our method demonstrates exceptional robustness to context
length, delivering consistent performance regardless of whether
k is set to 15 or 5. This is because we extract key information in
each iteration, effectively maintaining a stable and concise context
for the generator. As a result, the generator remains unaffected by
changes in the length of retrieved documents during the process.
6.4 Exploration of the number of iterations
1 2 3 4 5
Maximum number of iterations
36
38
40
42
44
46
48F1 Score
HotpotQA
2WikiMultihopQA
Figure 5: Performance with different maximum number of
iterations.
In our main experiments, the maximum number of allowed itera-
tions was set to three, following the construction methods detailed
in the HotpotQA and 2WikiMultihopQA papers, where most multi-
hop questions are resolved within three hops. However, in practical

[[page 8]]
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY Jiang et al.
Table 5: Case studies comparing IRCoT and ReSP. They are conducted to provide evidence of ReSP’s capability in addressing
the issues of over-planning and repetitive planning.
Issue Question IRCoT ReSP
Over-planning
Victor Varnada directed
Twisted Fortune, which
starred which brother
of Eddie Murphy?
Round 0 Thought:
"The text does not mention Twisted
Fortune, it talks about Eddie Mur-
phy’s career and his brother Charlie
Murphy. What’s the next step?"
Round 0 Thought:
[Global Evidence Memory]: "Vic-
tor Varnado directed the black com-
edy Twisted Fortune, which starred
Charlie Murphy, a brother of Eddie
Murphy. "
–>[Judgment]: "Yes"
–>[Response]: "Charlie Murphy"
Repetitive planning
What is Rachelle Amy
Beinart’s role in the film
that follows a group of
rebels on a mission?
Round 0 Thought:
"Rachelle Amy Beinart is not men-
tioned in any of the provided
Wikipedia articles. "
Round 1 Thought:
"Rachelle Amy Beinart is not men-
tioned. "
...
Round 0 Thought:
[Sub-question]: "Who is Rachelle
Amy Beinart?"
Round 1 Thought:
[Sub-question]: "What film men-
tioned in the provided passages fea-
tures a group of rebels on a mis-
sion?"
...
applications, the maximum number of iterations can significantly
affect the performance of iterative RAG methods. Consequently,
we conducted comparative experiments by varying the maximum
iterations from 1 to 5 to observe the resulting performance changes
in ReSP.
As illustrated in Figure 5, a significant decline in ReSP’s per-
formance is observed when the maximum number of iterations is
less than three, indicating that gathering information over mul-
tiple rounds can enhance response accuracy. However, when the
maximum number of iterations exceeds three, the performance
improvements become negligible. This is attributed to ReSP’s op-
timization for redundant planning, enabling problem resolution
within a reasonable number of hops. These findings are consistent
with the average iteration statistics presented in the Section 5.4.
6.5 Case Study
We present evidence of ReSP addressing over-planning and repeti-
tive planning by comparing cases of IRCoT and ReSP on two ques-
tions, as shown in Table 5.
In the first case, the retrieved documents remain consistent be-
cause the initial retrieval question is the same. Despite this con-
sistency, the two models take different approaches to their sub-
sequent actions. IRCoT, which combines information processing
and planning in a single step, tackles a higher level of task com-
plexity. Unfortunately, it fails to capture information related to
"Twisted Fortune" , which leads the model to conclude that ad-
ditional retrieval is necessary, thereby leading to over-planning
and unnecessary steps. In contrast, ReSP effectively and compre-
hensively gathers the necessary supporting facts related to the
overarching question by utilizing the summarizer. As a result, the
reasoner accurately assesses that the question can be answered with
the information at hand. Consequently, the generator can produce
the correct response, allowing the process to conclude successfully
after just the first round of retrieval, without the need for further
iterations.
In the second case, after the first round of retrieval, both mod-
els arrive at similar decisions due to the absence of information
concerning the main subject, "Rachelle Amy Beinart" in the re-
trieved documents. As a result, both models initiate queries for doc-
uments specifically related to "Rachelle Amy Beinart" . However,
limitations in document coverage or the capabilities of the retriever
result in no relevant documents being found on "Rachelle Amy
Beinart". At this juncture, the models adopt different approaches
in formulating sub-questions. Without a recorded retrieval trajec-
tory, IRCoT is constrained to make decisions solely based on the
current set of information, which leads it to continue querying
"Rachelle Amy Beinart" , resulting in repetitive and unproduc-
tive planning. In contrast, ReSP employs a strategy that avoids
generating previously retrieved sub-questions. This allows it to
adapt by adjusting the retrieval subject and crafting a new sub-
question focused on "film that follows a group of rebels
on a mission" . This shift in focus helps ReSP circumvent repet-
itive planning, enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the
retrieval process.
7 Conclusion
In this work, we propose an iterative RAG approach that incorpo-
rates query-focused summarization. By employing a dual-function
summarizer to simultaneously compress information from retrieved
documents targeting the overarching question and the current sub-
question, we address the context overload and redundant planning
issues commonly encountered in multi-hop question answering.
Experimental results demonstrate that our method significantly out-
performs other single-round and iterative RAG methods. Further-
more, we hope that our empirical analysis will aid the community
in practical applications.

[[page 9]]
Retrieve, Summarize, Plan: Advancing Multi-hop Question Answering with an Iterative Approach Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY
References
[1] AI@Meta. 2024. Llama 3 Model Card. (2024). https://github.com/meta-llama/
llama3/blob/main/MODEL_CARD.md
[2] Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi.
2024. Self-RAG: Learning to Retrieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-
Reflection. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations .
https://openreview.net/forum?id=hSyW5go0v8
[3] Tal Baumel, Raphael Cohen, and Michael Elhadad. 2016. Topic concentration in
query focused summarization datasets. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 30.
[4] Tianchi Cai, Zhiwen Tan, Xierui Song, Tao Sun, Jiyan Jiang, Yunqi Xu, Yinger
Zhang, and Jinjie Gu. 2024. FoRAG: Factuality-optimized Retrieval Augmented
Generation for Web-enhanced Long-form Question Answering. In Proceedings
of the 30th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining
(Barcelona, Spain) (KDD ’24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York,
NY, USA, 199–210. https://doi.org/10.1145/3637528.3672065
[5] Hoa Trang Dang. 2006. DUC 2005: Evaluation of Question-Focused Summariza-
tion Systems. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Task-Focused Summarization
and Question Answering , Tat-Seng Chua, Jade Goldstein, Simone Teufel, and
Lucy Vanderwende (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Sydney,
Australia, 48–55. https://aclanthology.org/W06-0707
[6] DeepSeek-AI. 2024. DeepSeek-V2: A Strong, Economical, and Efficient Mixture-
of-Experts Language Model. arXiv:2405.04434 [cs.CL]
[7] Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva
Mody, Steven Truitt, and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From Local to Global: A Graph
RAG Approach to Query-Focused Summarization. arXiv:2404.16130 [cs.CL]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16130
[8] Gemini-Team. 2024. Gemini: A Family of Highly Capable Multimodal Models.
arXiv:2312.11805 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11805
[9] Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara, and Akiko Aizawa. 2020.
Constructing A Multi-hop QA Dataset for Comprehensive Evaluation of Reason-
ing Steps. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational
Linguistics, Donia Scott, Nuria Bel, and Chengqing Zong (Eds.). International
Committee on Computational Linguistics, Barcelona, Spain (Online), 6609–6625.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.coling-main.580
[10] Gautier Izacard and Edouard Grave. 2021. Leveraging Passage Retrieval with
Generative Models for Open Domain Question Answering. In Proceedings of the
16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Main Volume, Paola Merlo, Jorg Tiedemann, and Reut Tsarfaty (Eds.).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 874–880. https://doi.org/10.
18653/v1/2021.eacl-main.74
[11] Tris Warkentin Jeanine Banks. 2024. Gemma: Introducing new state-of-the-art
open models. https://blog.google/technology/developers/gemma-open-models/
[12] Zhengbao Jiang, Frank Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-
Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. 2023. Active Retrieval
Augmented Generation. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing , Houda Bouamor, Juan Pino, and Kalika
Bali (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Singapore, 7969–7992.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.495
[13] Zhouyu Jiang, Ling Zhong, Mengshu Sun, Jun Xu, Rui Sun, Hui Cai, Shuhan
Luo, and Zhiqiang Zhang. 2024. Efficient Knowledge Infusion via KG-LLM
Alignment. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics ACL
2024, Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins, and Vivek Srikumar (Eds.). Association for
Computational Linguistics, Bangkok, Thailand and virtual meeting, 2986–2999.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.findings-acl.176
[14] Jiajie Jin, Yutao Zhu, Xinyu Yang, Chenghao Zhang, and Zhicheng Dou. 2024.
FlashRAG: A Modular Toolkit for Efficient Retrieval-Augmented Generation
Research. CoRR abs/2405.13576 (2024). arXiv:2405.13576 https://arxiv.org/abs/
2405.13576
[15] Urvashi Khandelwal, Omer Levy, Dan Jurafsky, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Mike
Lewis. 2020. Generalization through Memorization: Nearest Neighbor Lan-
guage Models. In International Conference on Learning Representations . https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=HklBjCEKvH
[16] Jaehyung Kim, Jaehyun Nam, Sangwoo Mo, Jongjin Park, Sang-Woo Lee, Min-
joon Seo, Jung-Woo Ha, and Jinwoo Shin. 2024. SuRe: Summarizing Retrievals
using Answer Candidates for Open-domain QA of LLMs. In The Twelfth Interna-
tional Conference on Learning Representations . https://openreview.net/forum?id=
w4DW6qkRmt
[17] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin,
Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel,
Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for
knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. InProceedings of the 34th International Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems (Vancouver, BC, Canada) (NIPS ’20).
Curran Associates Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, Article 793, 16 pages.
[18] Nelson F. Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paranjape, Michele Bevilacqua,
Fabio Petroni, and Percy Liang. 2024. Lost in the Middle: How Language Models
Use Long Contexts. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics
12 (2024), 157–173. https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00638
[19] Xiao Liu, Hanyu Lai, Hao Yu, Yifan Xu, Aohan Zeng, Zhengxiao Du, Peng Zhang,
Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. 2023. WebGLM: Towards An Efficient Web-Enhanced
Question Answering System with Human Preferences. In Proceedings of the 29th
ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (Long Beach,
CA, USA) (KDD ’23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
4549–4560. https://doi.org/10.1145/3580305.3599931
[20] Vaibhav Mavi, Anubhav Jangra, and Adam Jatowt. 2024. Multi-hop Question
Answering. arXiv:2204.09140 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.09140
[21] Preksha Nema, Mitesh M. Khapra, Anirban Laha, and Balaraman Ravindran. 2017.
Diversity driven attention model for query-based abstractive summarization.
In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , Regina Barzilay and Min-Yen Kan (Eds.).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Vancouver, Canada, 1063–1072. https:
//doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17-1098
[22] OpenAI. 2024. GPT-4 Technical Report. arXiv:2303.08774 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.
org/abs/2303.08774
[23] Yujia Qin, Zihan Cai, Dian Jin, Lan Yan, Shihao Liang, Kunlun Zhu, Yankai Lin, Xu
Han, Ning Ding, Huadong Wang, Ruobing Xie, Fanchao Qi, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong
Sun, and Jie Zhou. 2023. WebCPM: Interactive Web Search for Chinese Long-form
Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , Anna Rogers, Jordan Boyd-
Graber, and Naoaki Okazaki (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics,
Toronto, Canada, 8968–8988. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.499
[24] Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Minlie Huang, Nan Duan, and Weizhu
Chen. 2023. Enhancing Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models with It-
erative Retrieval-Generation Synergy. In Findings of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023 , Houda Bouamor, Juan Pino, and Kalika
Bali (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Singapore, 9248–9274.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.findings-emnlp.620
[25] Weijia Shi, Sewon Min, Michihiro Yasunaga, Minjoon Seo, Richard James, Mike
Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Wen-tau Yih. 2024. REPLUG: Retrieval-Augmented
Black-Box Language Models. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-
guage Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers) , Kevin Duh, Helena Gomez, and
Steven Bethard (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Mexico City,
Mexico, 8371–8384. https://aclanthology.org/2024.naacl-long.463
[26] Shamane Siriwardhana, Rivindu Weerasekera, Elliott Wen, Tharindu Kalu-
arachchi, Rajib Rana, and Suranga Nanayakkara. 2023. Improving the Domain
Adaptation of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) Models for Open Domain
Question Answering. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics
11 (2023), 1–17. https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00530
[27] Qwen Team. 2024. Qwen2.5: A Party of Foundation Models. https://qwenlm.
github.io/blog/qwen2.5/
[28] Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal.
2023. Interleaving Retrieval with Chain-of-Thought Reasoning for Knowledge-
Intensive Multi-Step Questions. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , Anna Rogers,
Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Naoaki Okazaki (Eds.). Association for Computational
Linguistics, Toronto, Canada, 10014–10037. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.acl-
long.557
[29] Ellen M. Voorhees and Dawn M. Tice. 2000. The TREC-8 Question Answer-
ing Track. In Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Language
Resources and Evaluation (LREC’00) , M. Gavrilidou, G. Carayannis, S. Markan-
tonatou, S. Piperidis, and G. Stainhauer (Eds.). European Language Resources
Association (ELRA), Athens, Greece. http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/
lrec2000/pdf/26.pdf
[30] Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang,
Rangan Majumder, and Furu Wei. 2022. Text Embeddings by Weakly-Supervised
Contrastive Pre-training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.03533 (2022).
[31] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, brian ichter, Fei Xia,
Ed H. Chi, Quoc V Le, and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain of Thought Prompting Elicits
Reasoning in Large Language Models. In Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, Alice H. Oh, Alekh Agarwal, Danielle Belgrave, and Kyunghyun
Cho (Eds.). https://openreview.net/forum?id=_VjQlMeSB_J
[32] Fangyuan Xu, Weijia Shi, and Eunsol Choi. 2024. RECOMP: Improving Retrieval-
Augmented LMs with Context Compression and Selective Augmentation. In The
Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.
net/forum?id=mlJLVigNHp
[33] Ruochen Xu, Song Wang, Yang Liu, Shuohang Wang, Yichong Xu, Dan Iter,
Pengcheng He, Chenguang Zhu, and Michael Zeng. 2023. LMGQS: A Large-scale
Dataset for Query-focused Summarization. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023 , Houda Bouamor, Juan Pino, and Kalika
Bali (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Singapore, 14764–14776.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.findings-emnlp.984
[34] Yumo Xu and Mirella Lapata. 2020. Coarse-to-Fine Query Focused Multi-
Document Summarization. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) , Bonnie Webber, Trevor Cohn,

[[page 10]]
Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–08, Woodstock, NY Jiang et al.
Yulan He, and Yang Liu (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Online,
3632–3645. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.296
[35] Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William Cohen, Ruslan
Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D. Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A Dataset for
Diverse, Explainable Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2018
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , Ellen Riloff,
David Chiang, Julia Hockenmaier, and Jun’ichi Tsujii (Eds.). Association for
Computational Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium, 2369–2380. https://doi.org/10.
18653/v1/D18-1259
[36] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan,
and Yuan Cao. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing Reasoning and Acting in Language
Models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations .
https://openreview.net/forum?id=WE_vluYUL-X
[37] Qin Zhang, Shangsi Chen, Dongkuan Xu, Qingqing Cao, Xiaojun Chen, Trevor
Cohn, and Meng Fang. 2023. A Survey for Efficient Open Domain Question
Answering. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , Anna Rogers, Jordan Boyd-Graber,
and Naoaki Okazaki (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Toronto,
Canada, 14447–14465. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.808
[38] Ming Zhong, Da Yin, Tao Yu, Ahmad Zaidi, Mutethia Mutuma, Rahul Jha,
Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Asli Celikyilmaz, Yang Liu, Xipeng Qiu, et al. 2021.
QMSum: A new benchmark for query-based multi-domain meeting summariza-
tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.05938 (2021).
[39] Yujia Zhou, Zheng Liu, Jiajie Jin, Jian-Yun Nie, and Zhicheng Dou. 2024. Metacog-
nitive Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models. In The Web Conference 2024.
https://openreview.net/forum?id=TW2gJyR6Mj